x-pack/docs/en/rest-api/rollup/put-job.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[rollup-put-job]]
=== Create Job API
++++
<titleabbrev>Create Job</titleabbrev>
++++

experimental[]

This API enables you to create a rollup job.  The job will be created in a `STOPPED` state, and must be
started with the <<rollup-start-job,Start Job API>>.

==== Request

`PUT _xpack/rollup/job/<job_id>`

//===== Description

==== Path Parameters

`job_id` (required)::
  (string) Identifier for the job


==== Request Body

`index_pattern` (required)::
  (string) The index, or index pattern, that you wish to rollup.  Supports wildcard-style patterns (`logstash-*`).

`rollup_index` (required)::
  (string) The index that you wish to store rollup results into.  Can be shared with other rollup jobs.

`cron` (required)::
  (string) A cron string which defines when the rollup job should be executed.

`page_size` (required)::
  (int) The number of bucket results that should be processed on each iteration of the rollup indexer.  A larger value
  will tend to execute faster, but will require more memory during processing.

`groups` (required)::
  (object) Defines the grouping fields that are defined for this rollup job. See <<rollup-job-config,rollup job config>>.

`metrics`::
   (object) Defines the metrics that should be collected for each grouping tuple. See <<rollup-job-config,rollup job config>>.

==== Authorization

You must have `manage` or `manage_rollup` cluster privileges to use this API.
For more information, see
{xpack-ref}/security-privileges.html[Security Privileges].


==== Examples

The following example creates a rollup job named "sensor", targeting the "sensor-*" index pattern:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT _xpack/rollup/job/sensor
{
    "index_pattern": "sensor-*",
    "rollup_index": "sensor_rollup",
    "cron": "*/30 * * * * ?",
    "page_size" :1000,
    "groups" : {
      "date_histogram": {
        "field": "timestamp",
        "interval": "1h",
        "delay": "7d"
      },
      "terms": {
        "fields": ["node"]
      }
    },
    "metrics": [
        {
            "field": "temperature",
            "metrics": ["min", "max", "sum"]
        },
        {
            "field": "voltage",
            "metrics": ["avg"]
        }
    ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[setup:sensor_index]

When the job is created, you receive the following results:

[source,js]
----
{
  "acknowledged": true
}
----
// TESTRESPONSE

Commit message:

[Rollup] Only allow aggregating on multiples of configured interval (#32052)
We need to limit the search request aggregations to whole multiples
of the configured interval for both histogram and date_histogram.
Otherwise, agg buckets won't overlap with the rolled up buckets
and the results will be incorrect.

For histogram, the validation is very simple: request must be >= the config,
and modulo evenly.

Dates are more tricky.
- If both request and config are fixed dates, we can convert to millis
and treat them just like the histo
- If both are calendar, we make sure the request is >= the config with
a static lookup map that ranks the calendar values relatively.  All
calendar units are "singles", so they are evenly divisible already
- We disallow any other combination (one fixed, one calendar, etc)

x-pack/docs/en/rest-api/rollup/put-job.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[rollup-put-job]]
=== Create Job API
++++
<titleabbrev>Create Job</titleabbrev>
++++

experimental[]

This API enables you to create a rollup job.  The job will be created in a `STOPPED` state, and must be
started with the <<rollup-start-job,Start Job API>>.

==== Request

`PUT _xpack/rollup/job/<job_id>`

//===== Description

==== Path Parameters

`job_id` (required)::
  (string) Identifier for the job


==== Request Body

`index_pattern` (required)::
  (string) The index, or index pattern, that you wish to rollup.  Supports wildcard-style patterns (`logstash-*`).

`rollup_index` (required)::
  (string) The index that you wish to store rollup results into.  Can be shared with other rollup jobs.

`cron` (required)::
  (string) A cron string which defines when the rollup job should be executed.

`page_size` (required)::
  (int) The number of bucket results that should be processed on each iteration of the rollup indexer.  A larger value
  will tend to execute faster, but will require more memory during processing.

`groups` (required)::
  (object) Defines the grouping fields that are defined for this rollup job. See <<rollup-job-config,rollup job config>>.

`metrics`::
   (object) Defines the metrics that should be collected for each grouping tuple. See <<rollup-job-config,rollup job config>>.

For more details about the job configuration, see <<rollup-job-config>>.

==== Authorization

You must have `manage` or `manage_rollup` cluster privileges to use this API.
For more information, see
{xpack-ref}/security-privileges.html[Security Privileges].


==== Examples

The following example creates a rollup job named "sensor", targeting the "sensor-*" index pattern:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT _xpack/rollup/job/sensor
{
    "index_pattern": "sensor-*",
    "rollup_index": "sensor_rollup",
    "cron": "*/30 * * * * ?",
    "page_size" :1000,
    "groups" : {
      "date_histogram": {
        "field": "timestamp",
        "interval": "1h",
        "delay": "7d"
      },
      "terms": {
        "fields": ["node"]
      }
    },
    "metrics": [
        {
            "field": "temperature",
            "metrics": ["min", "max", "sum"]
        },
        {
            "field": "voltage",
            "metrics": ["avg"]
        }
    ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[setup:sensor_index]

When the job is created, you receive the following results:

[source,js]
----
{
  "acknowledged": true
}
----
// TESTRESPONSE
