docs/reference/mapping/types.asciidoc, before:

[[mapping-types]]
== Field datatypes

Elasticsearch supports a number of different datatypes for the fields in a
document:

[float]
=== Core datatypes

string::        <<text,`text`>> and <<keyword,`keyword`>>
<<number>>::    `long`, `integer`, `short`, `byte`, `double`, `float`, `half_float`, `scaled_float`
<<date>>::      `date`
<<boolean>>::   `boolean`
<<binary>>::    `binary`
<<range>>::     `integer_range`, `float_range`, `long_range`, `double_range`, `date_range`

[float]
=== Complex datatypes

<<array>>::     Array support does not require a dedicated `type`
<<object>>::    `object` for single JSON objects
<<nested>>::    `nested` for arrays of JSON objects

[float]
=== Geo datatypes

<<geo-point>>::     `geo_point` for lat/lon points
<<geo-shape>>::     `geo_shape` for complex shapes like polygons

[float]
=== Specialised datatypes

<<ip>>::            `ip` for IPv4 and IPv6 addresses
<<search-suggesters-completion,Completion datatype>>::
                    `completion` to provide auto-complete suggestions
<<token-count>>::   `token_count` to count the number of tokens in a string
{plugins}/mapper-murmur3.html[`mapper-murmur3`]:: `murmur3` to compute hashes of values at index-time and store them in the index

<<percolator>>::    Accepts queries from the query-dsl

<<parent-join>>::   Defines parent/child relation for documents within the same index

<<feature>>::       Record numeric features to boost hits at query time.

<<feature-vector>>:: Record numeric feature vectors to boost hits at query time.

[float]
=== Multi-fields

It is often useful to index the same field in different ways for different
purposes. For instance, a `string` field could be mapped as
a `text` field for full-text search, and as a `keyword` field for
sorting or aggregations.  Alternatively, you could index a text field with
the <<analysis-standard-analyzer,`standard` analyzer>>, the
<<english-analyzer,`english`>> analyzer, and the
<<french-analyzer,`french` analyzer>>.

This is the purpose of _multi-fields_.  Most datatypes support multi-fields
via the <<multi-fields>> parameter.

include::types/array.asciidoc[]

include::types/binary.asciidoc[]

include::types/range.asciidoc[]

include::types/boolean.asciidoc[]

include::types/date.asciidoc[]

include::types/geo-point.asciidoc[]

include::types/geo-shape.asciidoc[]

include::types/ip.asciidoc[]

include::types/keyword.asciidoc[]

include::types/nested.asciidoc[]

include::types/numeric.asciidoc[]

include::types/object.asciidoc[]

include::types/text.asciidoc[]

include::types/token-count.asciidoc[]

include::types/percolator.asciidoc[]

include::types/parent-join.asciidoc[]

include::types/feature.asciidoc[]

include::types/feature-vector.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

Add support for field aliases. (#32172)
* Add basic support for field aliases in index mappings. (#31287)
* Allow for aliases when fetching stored fields. (#31411)
* Add tests around accessing field aliases in scripts. (#31417)
* Add documentation around field aliases. (#31538)
* Add validation for field alias mappings. (#31518)
* Return both concrete fields and aliases in DocumentFieldMappers#getMapper. (#31671)
* Make sure that field-level security is enforced when using field aliases. (#31807)
* Add more comprehensive tests for field aliases in queries + aggregations. (#31565)
* Remove the deprecated method DocumentFieldMappers#getFieldMapper. (#32148)

docs/reference/mapping/types.asciidoc, after:

[[mapping-types]]
== Field datatypes

Elasticsearch supports a number of different datatypes for the fields in a
document:

[float]
=== Core datatypes

string::        <<text,`text`>> and <<keyword,`keyword`>>
<<number>>::    `long`, `integer`, `short`, `byte`, `double`, `float`, `half_float`, `scaled_float`
<<date>>::      `date`
<<boolean>>::   `boolean`
<<binary>>::    `binary`
<<range>>::     `integer_range`, `float_range`, `long_range`, `double_range`, `date_range`

[float]
=== Complex datatypes

<<array>>::     Array support does not require a dedicated `type`
<<object>>::    `object` for single JSON objects
<<nested>>::    `nested` for arrays of JSON objects

[float]
=== Geo datatypes

<<geo-point>>::     `geo_point` for lat/lon points
<<geo-shape>>::     `geo_shape` for complex shapes like polygons

[float]
=== Specialised datatypes

<<ip>>::            `ip` for IPv4 and IPv6 addresses
<<search-suggesters-completion,Completion datatype>>::
                    `completion` to provide auto-complete suggestions
<<token-count>>::   `token_count` to count the number of tokens in a string
{plugins}/mapper-murmur3.html[`mapper-murmur3`]:: `murmur3` to compute hashes of values at index-time and store them in the index

<<percolator>>::    Accepts queries from the query-dsl

<<parent-join>>::   Defines parent/child relation for documents within the same index

<<alias>>::         Defines an alias to an existing field.

<<feature>>::       Record numeric features to boost hits at query time.

<<feature-vector>>:: Record numeric feature vectors to boost hits at query time.

[float]
=== Multi-fields

It is often useful to index the same field in different ways for different
purposes. For instance, a `string` field could be mapped as
a `text` field for full-text search, and as a `keyword` field for
sorting or aggregations.  Alternatively, you could index a text field with
the <<analysis-standard-analyzer,`standard` analyzer>>, the
<<english-analyzer,`english`>> analyzer, and the
<<french-analyzer,`french` analyzer>>.

This is the purpose of _multi-fields_.  Most datatypes support multi-fields
via the <<multi-fields>> parameter.

include::types/alias.asciidoc[]

include::types/array.asciidoc[]

include::types/binary.asciidoc[]

include::types/range.asciidoc[]

include::types/boolean.asciidoc[]

include::types/date.asciidoc[]

include::types/geo-point.asciidoc[]

include::types/geo-shape.asciidoc[]

include::types/ip.asciidoc[]

include::types/keyword.asciidoc[]

include::types/nested.asciidoc[]

include::types/numeric.asciidoc[]

include::types/object.asciidoc[]

include::types/text.asciidoc[]

include::types/token-count.asciidoc[]

include::types/percolator.asciidoc[]

include::types/parent-join.asciidoc[]

include::types/feature.asciidoc[]

include::types/feature-vector.asciidoc[]
