docs/reference/setup/install.asciidoc, before:

[[install-elasticsearch]]
== Installing Elasticsearch

Elasticsearch is provided in the following package formats:

[horizontal]
`zip`/`tar.gz`::

The `zip` and `tar.gz` packages are suitable for installation on any system
and are the easiest choice for getting started with Elasticsearch on most systems.
+
<<zip-targz>> or <<zip-windows>>

`deb`::

The `deb` package is suitable for Debian, Ubuntu, and other Debian-based
systems.  Debian packages may be downloaded from the Elasticsearch website or
from our Debian repository.
+
<<deb>>

`rpm`::

The `rpm` package is suitable for installation on Red Hat, Centos, SLES,
OpenSuSE and other RPM-based systems.  RPMs may be downloaded from the
Elasticsearch website or from our RPM repository.
+
<<rpm>>

`msi`::

The `msi` package is suitable for installation on Windows 64-bit systems with at least
.NET 4.5 framework installed, and is the easiest choice for getting started with
Elasticsearch on Windows. MSIs may be downloaded from the Elasticsearch website.
+
<<windows>>

`docker`::

Images are available for running Elasticsearch as Docker containers. They may be
downloaded from the Elastic Docker Registry. 
+
{ref}/docker.html[Install {es} with Docker]

[float]
[[config-mgmt-tools]]
=== Configuration Management Tools

We also provide the following configuration management tools to help with
large deployments:

[horizontal]
Puppet:: https://github.com/elastic/puppet-elasticsearch[puppet-elasticsearch]
Chef::   https://github.com/elastic/cookbook-elasticsearch[cookbook-elasticsearch]
Ansible:: https://github.com/elastic/ansible-elasticsearch[ansible-elasticsearch]


include::install/zip-targz.asciidoc[]

include::install/zip-windows.asciidoc[]

include::install/deb.asciidoc[]

include::install/rpm.asciidoc[]

include::install/windows.asciidoc[]

include::install/docker.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

Docs: Added note about cloud service to installation and getting started

docs/reference/setup/install.asciidoc, after:

[[install-elasticsearch]]
== Installing Elasticsearch

Elasticsearch can be run on your own hardware or using our hosted
Elasticsearch Service on https://www.elastic.co/cloud[Elastic Cloud], which is
available on AWS and GCP. You can
https://www.elastic.co/cloud/elasticsearch-service/signup[try out the hosted service] for free.

Elasticsearch is provided in the following package formats:

[horizontal]
`zip`/`tar.gz`::

The `zip` and `tar.gz` packages are suitable for installation on any system
and are the easiest choice for getting started with Elasticsearch on most systems.
+
<<zip-targz>> or <<zip-windows>>

`deb`::

The `deb` package is suitable for Debian, Ubuntu, and other Debian-based
systems.  Debian packages may be downloaded from the Elasticsearch website or
from our Debian repository.
+
<<deb>>

`rpm`::

The `rpm` package is suitable for installation on Red Hat, Centos, SLES,
OpenSuSE and other RPM-based systems.  RPMs may be downloaded from the
Elasticsearch website or from our RPM repository.
+
<<rpm>>

`msi`::

The `msi` package is suitable for installation on Windows 64-bit systems with at least
.NET 4.5 framework installed, and is the easiest choice for getting started with
Elasticsearch on Windows. MSIs may be downloaded from the Elasticsearch website.
+
<<windows>>

`docker`::

Images are available for running Elasticsearch as Docker containers. They may be
downloaded from the Elastic Docker Registry.
+
{ref}/docker.html[Install {es} with Docker]

[float]
[[config-mgmt-tools]]
=== Configuration Management Tools

We also provide the following configuration management tools to help with
large deployments:

[horizontal]
Puppet:: https://github.com/elastic/puppet-elasticsearch[puppet-elasticsearch]
Chef::   https://github.com/elastic/cookbook-elasticsearch[cookbook-elasticsearch]
Ansible:: https://github.com/elastic/ansible-elasticsearch[ansible-elasticsearch]


include::install/zip-targz.asciidoc[]

include::install/zip-windows.asciidoc[]

include::install/deb.asciidoc[]

include::install/rpm.asciidoc[]

include::install/windows.asciidoc[]

include::install/docker.asciidoc[]
