docs/reference/cat/thread_pool.asciidoc, before:

[[cat-thread-pool]]
== cat thread pool

The `thread_pool` command shows cluster wide thread pool statistics per node. By default the active, queue and rejected
statistics are returned for all thread pools.

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /_cat/thread_pool
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

Which looks like:

[source,txt]
--------------------------------------------------
node-0 analyze             0 0 0
node-0 fetch_shard_started 0 0 0
node-0 fetch_shard_store   0 0 0
node-0 flush               0 0 0
node-0 force_merge         0 0 0
node-0 generic             0 0 0
node-0 get                 0 0 0
node-0 listener            0 0 0
node-0 management          1 0 0
node-0 refresh             0 0 0
node-0 search              0 0 0
node-0 snapshot            0 0 0
node-0 warmer              0 0 0
node-0 write               0 0 0
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/\d+/\\d+/ _cat]

The first column is the node name

[source,txt]
--------------------------------------------------
node_name
node-0
--------------------------------------------------

The second column is the thread pool name
[source,txt]
--------------------------------------------------
name
analyze
fetch_shard_started
fetch_shard_store
flush
force_merge
generic
get
listener
management
refresh
search
snapshot
warmer
write
--------------------------------------------------


The next three columns show the active, queue, and rejected statistics for each thread pool

[source,txt]
--------------------------------------------------
active queue rejected
     0     0        0
     0     0        0
     0     0        0
     0     0        0
     0     0        0
     0     0        0
     0     0        0
     0     0        0
     0     0        0
     1     0        0
     0     0        0
     0     0        0
     0     0        0
     0     0        0
--------------------------------------------------

The cat thread pool API accepts a `thread_pool_patterns` URL parameter for specifying a
comma-separated list of regular expressions to match thread pool names.

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /_cat/thread_pool/generic?v&h=id,name,active,rejected,completed
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

which looks like:

[source,txt]
--------------------------------------------------
id                     name    active rejected completed
0EWUhXeBQtaVGlexUeVwMg generic      0        0        70
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/0EWUhXeBQtaVGlexUeVwMg/[\\w-]+/ s/\d+/\\d+/ _cat]

Here the host columns and the active, rejected and completed suggest thread pool statistics are displayed.

All <<modules-threadpool,built-in thread pools>> and custom thread pools are available.
[float]
==== Thread Pool Fields

For each thread pool, you can load details about it by using the field names
in the table below.

[cols="<,<,<",options="header"]
|=======================================================================
|Field Name |Alias |Description
|`type` |`t` |The current (*) type of thread pool (`fixed` or `scaling`)
|`active` |`a` |The number of active threads in the current thread pool
|`pool_size` |`psz` |The number of threads in the current thread pool
|`queue` |`q` |The number of tasks in the queue for the current thread pool
|`queue_size` |`qs` |The maximum number of tasks permitted in the queue for the current thread pool
|`rejected` |`r` |The number of tasks rejected by the thread pool executor
|`largest` |`l` |The highest number of active threads in the current thread pool
|`completed` |`c` |The number of tasks completed by the thread pool executor
|`core` |`cr` |The configured core number of active threads allowed in the current thread pool
|`max` |`mx` |The configured maximum number of active threads allowed in the current thread pool
|`size` |`sz` |The configured fixed number of active threads allowed in the current thread pool
|`keep_alive` |`k` |The configured keep alive time for threads
|=======================================================================

[float]
=== Other Fields

In addition to details about each thread pool, it is also convenient to get an
understanding of where those thread pools reside. As such, you can request
other details like the `ip` of the responding node(s).

[cols="<,<,<",options="header"]
|=======================================================================
|Field Name |Alias |Description
|`node_id` |`id` |The unique node ID
|`ephemeral_id`|`eid` |The ephemeral node ID
|`pid` |`p` |The process ID of the running node
|`host` |`h` |The hostname for the current node
|`ip` |`i` |The IP address for the current node
|`port` |`po` |The bound transport port for the current node
|=======================================================================

Commit message:

Docs: Use the default distribution to test docs (#31251)
This switches the docs tests from the `oss-zip` distribution to the
`zip` distribution so they have xpack installed and configured with the
default basic license. The goal is to be able to merge the
`x-pack/docs` directory into the `docs` directory, marking the x-pack
docs with some kind of marker. This is the first step in that process.

This also enables `-Dtests.distribution` support for the `docs`
directory so you can run the tests against the `oss-zip` distribution
with something like
```
./gradlew -p docs check -Dtests.distribution=oss-zip
```

We can set up Jenkins to run both.

Relates to #30665

docs/reference/cat/thread_pool.asciidoc, after:

[[cat-thread-pool]]
== cat thread pool

The `thread_pool` command shows cluster wide thread pool statistics per node. By default the active, queue and rejected
statistics are returned for all thread pools.

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /_cat/thread_pool
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

Which looks like:

[source,txt]
--------------------------------------------------
node-0 analyze             0 0 0
node-0 fetch_shard_started 0 0 0
node-0 fetch_shard_store   0 0 0
node-0 flush               0 0 0
...
node-0 write               0 0 0
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/\.\.\./(node-0 .+ 0 0 0\n)+/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/\d+/\\d+/ _cat]
// The substitutions do two things:
// 1. Expect any number of extra thread pools. This allows us to only list a
//    few thread pools. The list would be super long otherwise. In addition,
//    if xpack is installed then the list will contain more thread pools and
//    this way we don't have to assert about them.
// 2. Expect any number of active, queued, or rejected items. We really don't
//    know how many there will be and we just want to assert that there are
//    numbers in the response, not *which* numbers are there.

The first column is the node name

[source,txt]
--------------------------------------------------
node_name
node-0
--------------------------------------------------

The second column is the thread pool name
[source,txt]
--------------------------------------------------
name
analyze
fetch_shard_started
fetch_shard_store
flush
force_merge
generic
get
listener
management
ml_autodetect (default distro only)
ml_datafeed (default distro only)
ml_utility (default distro only)
refresh
rollup_indexing (default distro only)`
search
security-token-key (default distro only)
snapshot
warmer
watcher (default distro only)
write
--------------------------------------------------


The next three columns show the active, queue, and rejected statistics for each thread pool

[source,txt]
--------------------------------------------------
active queue rejected
     0     0        0
     0     0        0
     0     0        0
     0     0        0
     0     0        0
     0     0        0
     0     0        0
     0     0        0
     0     0        0
     1     0        0
     0     0        0
     0     0        0
     0     0        0
     0     0        0
--------------------------------------------------

The cat thread pool API accepts a `thread_pool_patterns` URL parameter for specifying a
comma-separated list of regular expressions to match thread pool names.

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /_cat/thread_pool/generic?v&h=id,name,active,rejected,completed
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

which looks like:

[source,txt]
--------------------------------------------------
id                     name    active rejected completed
0EWUhXeBQtaVGlexUeVwMg generic      0        0        70
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/0EWUhXeBQtaVGlexUeVwMg/[\\w-]+/ s/\d+/\\d+/ _cat]

Here the host columns and the active, rejected and completed suggest thread pool statistics are displayed.

All <<modules-threadpool,built-in thread pools>> and custom thread pools are available.
[float]
==== Thread Pool Fields

For each thread pool, you can load details about it by using the field names
in the table below.

[cols="<,<,<",options="header"]
|=======================================================================
|Field Name |Alias |Description
|`type` |`t` |The current (*) type of thread pool (`fixed` or `scaling`)
|`active` |`a` |The number of active threads in the current thread pool
|`pool_size` |`psz` |The number of threads in the current thread pool
|`queue` |`q` |The number of tasks in the queue for the current thread pool
|`queue_size` |`qs` |The maximum number of tasks permitted in the queue for the current thread pool
|`rejected` |`r` |The number of tasks rejected by the thread pool executor
|`largest` |`l` |The highest number of active threads in the current thread pool
|`completed` |`c` |The number of tasks completed by the thread pool executor
|`core` |`cr` |The configured core number of active threads allowed in the current thread pool
|`max` |`mx` |The configured maximum number of active threads allowed in the current thread pool
|`size` |`sz` |The configured fixed number of active threads allowed in the current thread pool
|`keep_alive` |`k` |The configured keep alive time for threads
|=======================================================================

[float]
=== Other Fields

In addition to details about each thread pool, it is also convenient to get an
understanding of where those thread pools reside. As such, you can request
other details like the `ip` of the responding node(s).

[cols="<,<,<",options="header"]
|=======================================================================
|Field Name |Alias |Description
|`node_id` |`id` |The unique node ID
|`ephemeral_id`|`eid` |The ephemeral node ID
|`pid` |`p` |The process ID of the running node
|`host` |`h` |The hostname for the current node
|`ip` |`i` |The IP address for the current node
|`port` |`po` |The bound transport port for the current node
|=======================================================================
