docs/painless/painless-execute-script.asciidoc, before:

[[painless-execute-api]]
=== Painless execute API

The Painless execute API allows an arbitrary script to be executed and a result to be returned.

[[painless-execute-api-parameters]]
.Parameters
[options="header"]
|======
| Name             | Required  | Default                | Description
| `script`         | yes       | -                      | The script to execute
| `context`        | no        | `execute_api_script`   | The context the script should be executed in.
|======

==== Contexts

Contexts control how scripts are executed, what variables are available at runtime and what the return type is.

===== Painless test script context

The `painless_test` context executes scripts as is and do not add any special parameters.
The only variable that is available is `params`, which can be used to access user defined values.
The result of the script is always converted to a string.
If no context is specified then this context is used by default.

==== Example

Request:

[source,js]
----------------------------------------------------------------
POST /_scripts/painless/_execute
{
  "script": {
    "source": "params.count / params.total",
    "params": {
      "count": 100.0,
      "total": 1000.0
    }
  }
}
----------------------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

Response:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "result": "0.1"
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE

Commit message:

[DOCS] Mark painless execute api as experimental (#30710)

docs/painless/painless-execute-script.asciidoc, after:

[[painless-execute-api]]
=== Painless execute API

experimental[The painless execute api is new and the request / response format may change in a breaking way in the future]

The Painless execute API allows an arbitrary script to be executed and a result to be returned.

[[painless-execute-api-parameters]]
.Parameters
[options="header"]
|======
| Name             | Required  | Default                | Description
| `script`         | yes       | -                      | The script to execute
| `context`        | no        | `execute_api_script`   | The context the script should be executed in.
|======

==== Contexts

Contexts control how scripts are executed, what variables are available at runtime and what the return type is.

===== Painless test script context

The `painless_test` context executes scripts as is and do not add any special parameters.
The only variable that is available is `params`, which can be used to access user defined values.
The result of the script is always converted to a string.
If no context is specified then this context is used by default.

==== Example

Request:

[source,js]
----------------------------------------------------------------
POST /_scripts/painless/_execute
{
  "script": {
    "source": "params.count / params.total",
    "params": {
      "count": 100.0,
      "total": 1000.0
    }
  }
}
----------------------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

Response:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "result": "0.1"
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE
