x-pack/docs/en/security/authentication/configuring-kerberos-realm.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[configuring-kerberos-realm]]
=== Configuring a Kerberos realm

Kerberos is used to protect services and uses a ticket-based authentication
protocol to authenticate users.
You can configure {es} to use the Kerberos V5 authentication protocol, which is 
an industry standard protocol, to authenticate users.
In this scenario, clients must present Kerberos tickets for authentication.

In Kerberos, users authenticate with an authentication service and later
with a ticket granting service to generate a TGT (ticket-granting ticket).
This ticket is then presented to the service for authentication.
Refer to your Kerberos installation documentation for more information about 
obtaining TGT. {es} clients must first obtain a TGT then initiate the process of 
authenticating with {es}.

For a summary of Kerberos terminology, see {stack-ov}/kerberos-realm.html[Kerberos authentication].

==== Before you begin

. Deploy Kerberos. 
+
--
You must have the Kerberos infrastructure set up in your environment.

NOTE: Kerberos requires a lot of external services to function properly, such as 
time synchronization between all machines and working forward and reverse DNS 
mappings in your domain. Refer to your Kerberos documentation for more details.

These instructions do not cover setting up and configuring your Kerberos 
deployment. Where examples are provided, they pertain to an MIT Kerberos V5 
deployment. For more information, see 
http://web.mit.edu/kerberos/www/index.html[MIT Kerberos documentation]
--

. Configure Java GSS. 
+
--

{es} uses Java GSS framework support for Kerberos authentication.
To support Kerberos authentication, {es} needs the following files:

* `krb5.conf`, a Kerberos configuration file
*  A `keytab` file that contains credentials for the {es} service principal

The configuration requirements depend on your Kerberos setup. Refer to your 
Kerberos documentation to configure the `krb5.conf` file.

For more information on Java GSS, see 
https://docs.oracle.com/javase/10/security/kerberos-requirements1.htm[Java GSS Kerberos requirements]
--

==== Create a Kerberos realm

To configure a Kerberos realm in {es}:

. Configure the JVM to find the Kerberos configuration file. 
+
--
{es} uses Java GSS and JAAS Krb5LoginModule to support Kerberos authentication 
using a Simple and Protected GSSAPI Negotiation Mechanism (SPNEGO) mechanism. 
The Kerberos configuration file (`krb5.conf`) provides information such as the 
default realm, the Key Distribution Center (KDC), and other configuration details 
required for Kerberos authentication. When the JVM needs some configuration 
properties, it tries to find those values by locating and loading this file. The 
JVM system property to configure the file path is `java.security.krb5.conf`. To 
configure JVM system properties see {ref}/jvm-options.html[configuring jvm options]. 
If this system property is not specified, Java tries to locate the file based on 
the conventions.

TIP: It is recommended that this system property be configured for {es}.
The method for setting this property depends on your Kerberos infrastructure. 
Refer to your Kerberos documentation for more details.

For more information, see http://web.mit.edu/kerberos/krb5-latest/doc/admin/conf_files/krb5_conf.html[krb5.conf]

--

. Create a keytab for the {es} node.
+
--
A keytab is a file that stores pairs of principals and encryption keys. {es} 
uses the keys from the keytab to decrypt the tickets presented by the user. You 
must create a keytab for {es} by using the tools provided by your Kerberos 
implementation. For example, some tools that create keytabs are `ktpass.exe` on 
Windows and `kadmin` for MIT Kerberos. 
--

. Put the keytab file in the {es} configuration directory.
+
--
Make sure that this keytab file has read permissions. This file contains
credentials, therefore you must take appropriate measures to protect it.

IMPORTANT: {es} uses Kerberos on the HTTP network layer, therefore there must be 
a keytab file for the HTTP service principal on every {es} node. The service 
principal name must have the format `HTTP/es.domain.local@ES.DOMAIN.LOCAL`.
The keytab files are unique for each node since they include the hostname.
An {es} node can act as any principal a client requests as long as that
principal and its credentials are found in the configured keytab.

--

. Create a Kerberos realm. 
+
--

To enable Kerberos authentication in {es}, you must add a Kerberos realm in the 
realm chain.

NOTE: You can configure only one Kerberos realm on {es} nodes.

To configure a Kerberos realm, there are a few mandatory realm settings and
other optional settings that you need to configure in the `elasticsearch.yml`
configuration file. Add a realm of type `kerberos` under the 
`xpack.security.authc.realms` namespace.

The most common configuration for a Kerberos realm is as follows:

[source, yaml]
------------------------------------------------------------
xpack.security.authc.realms.kerb1:
  type: kerberos
  order: 3
  keytab.path: es.keytab
  remove_realm_name: false
------------------------------------------------------------

The `username` is extracted from the ticket presented by user and usually has 
the format `username@REALM`. This `username` is used for mapping 
roles to the user. If realm setting `remove_realm_name` is 
set to `true`, the realm part (`@REALM`) is removed. The resulting `username` 
is used for role mapping.

For detailed information of available realm settings,
see {ref}/security-settings.html#ref-kerberos-settings[Kerberos realm settings].

--

. Restart {es}

. Map Kerberos users to roles.
+
--

The `kerberos` realm enables you to map Kerberos users to roles. You can 
configure these role mappings by using the 
{ref}/security-api-role-mapping.html[role-mapping API]. You identify 
users by their `username` field.

The following example uses the role mapping API to map `user@REALM` to the roles 
`monitoring` and `user`:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
POST _xpack/security/role_mapping/kerbrolemapping
{
  "roles" : [ "monitoring_user" ],
  "enabled": true,
  "rules" : {
    "field" : { "username" : "user@REALM" }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

For more information, see {stack-ov}/mapping-roles.html[Mapping users and groups to roles].
--

Commit message:

Add support for "authorization_realms" (#33262)
Authorization Realms allow an authenticating realm to delegate the task
of constructing a User object (with name, roles, etc) to one or more
other realms.

E.g. A client could authenticate using PKI, but then delegate to an LDAP
realm. The LDAP realm performs a "lookup" by principal, and then does
regular role-mapping from the discovered user.

This commit includes:
- authorization_realm support in the pki, ldap, saml & kerberos realms
- docs for authorization_realms
- checks that there are no "authorization chains"
   (whereby "realm-a" delegates to "realm-b", but "realm-b" delegates to "realm-c")

Authorization realms is a platinum feature.

x-pack/docs/en/security/authentication/configuring-kerberos-realm.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[configuring-kerberos-realm]]
=== Configuring a Kerberos realm

Kerberos is used to protect services and uses a ticket-based authentication
protocol to authenticate users.
You can configure {es} to use the Kerberos V5 authentication protocol, which is 
an industry standard protocol, to authenticate users.
In this scenario, clients must present Kerberos tickets for authentication.

In Kerberos, users authenticate with an authentication service and later
with a ticket granting service to generate a TGT (ticket-granting ticket).
This ticket is then presented to the service for authentication.
Refer to your Kerberos installation documentation for more information about 
obtaining TGT. {es} clients must first obtain a TGT then initiate the process of 
authenticating with {es}.

For a summary of Kerberos terminology, see {stack-ov}/kerberos-realm.html[Kerberos authentication].

==== Before you begin

. Deploy Kerberos. 
+
--
You must have the Kerberos infrastructure set up in your environment.

NOTE: Kerberos requires a lot of external services to function properly, such as 
time synchronization between all machines and working forward and reverse DNS 
mappings in your domain. Refer to your Kerberos documentation for more details.

These instructions do not cover setting up and configuring your Kerberos 
deployment. Where examples are provided, they pertain to an MIT Kerberos V5 
deployment. For more information, see 
http://web.mit.edu/kerberos/www/index.html[MIT Kerberos documentation]
--

. Configure Java GSS. 
+
--

{es} uses Java GSS framework support for Kerberos authentication.
To support Kerberos authentication, {es} needs the following files:

* `krb5.conf`, a Kerberos configuration file
*  A `keytab` file that contains credentials for the {es} service principal

The configuration requirements depend on your Kerberos setup. Refer to your 
Kerberos documentation to configure the `krb5.conf` file.

For more information on Java GSS, see 
https://docs.oracle.com/javase/10/security/kerberos-requirements1.htm[Java GSS Kerberos requirements]
--

==== Create a Kerberos realm

To configure a Kerberos realm in {es}:

. Configure the JVM to find the Kerberos configuration file. 
+
--
{es} uses Java GSS and JAAS Krb5LoginModule to support Kerberos authentication 
using a Simple and Protected GSSAPI Negotiation Mechanism (SPNEGO) mechanism. 
The Kerberos configuration file (`krb5.conf`) provides information such as the 
default realm, the Key Distribution Center (KDC), and other configuration details 
required for Kerberos authentication. When the JVM needs some configuration 
properties, it tries to find those values by locating and loading this file. The 
JVM system property to configure the file path is `java.security.krb5.conf`. To 
configure JVM system properties see {ref}/jvm-options.html[configuring jvm options]. 
If this system property is not specified, Java tries to locate the file based on 
the conventions.

TIP: It is recommended that this system property be configured for {es}.
The method for setting this property depends on your Kerberos infrastructure. 
Refer to your Kerberos documentation for more details.

For more information, see http://web.mit.edu/kerberos/krb5-latest/doc/admin/conf_files/krb5_conf.html[krb5.conf]

--

. Create a keytab for the {es} node.
+
--
A keytab is a file that stores pairs of principals and encryption keys. {es} 
uses the keys from the keytab to decrypt the tickets presented by the user. You 
must create a keytab for {es} by using the tools provided by your Kerberos 
implementation. For example, some tools that create keytabs are `ktpass.exe` on 
Windows and `kadmin` for MIT Kerberos. 
--

. Put the keytab file in the {es} configuration directory.
+
--
Make sure that this keytab file has read permissions. This file contains
credentials, therefore you must take appropriate measures to protect it.

IMPORTANT: {es} uses Kerberos on the HTTP network layer, therefore there must be 
a keytab file for the HTTP service principal on every {es} node. The service 
principal name must have the format `HTTP/es.domain.local@ES.DOMAIN.LOCAL`.
The keytab files are unique for each node since they include the hostname.
An {es} node can act as any principal a client requests as long as that
principal and its credentials are found in the configured keytab.

--

. Create a Kerberos realm. 
+
--

To enable Kerberos authentication in {es}, you must add a Kerberos realm in the 
realm chain.

NOTE: You can configure only one Kerberos realm on {es} nodes.

To configure a Kerberos realm, there are a few mandatory realm settings and
other optional settings that you need to configure in the `elasticsearch.yml`
configuration file. Add a realm of type `kerberos` under the 
`xpack.security.authc.realms` namespace.

The most common configuration for a Kerberos realm is as follows:

[source, yaml]
------------------------------------------------------------
xpack.security.authc.realms.kerb1:
  type: kerberos
  order: 3
  keytab.path: es.keytab
  remove_realm_name: false
------------------------------------------------------------

The `username` is extracted from the ticket presented by user and usually has 
the format `username@REALM`. This `username` is used for mapping 
roles to the user. If realm setting `remove_realm_name` is 
set to `true`, the realm part (`@REALM`) is removed. The resulting `username` 
is used for role mapping.

For detailed information of available realm settings,
see {ref}/security-settings.html#ref-kerberos-settings[Kerberos realm settings].

--

. Restart {es}

. Map Kerberos users to roles.
+
--

The `kerberos` realm enables you to map Kerberos users to roles. You can 
configure these role mappings by using the 
{ref}/security-api-role-mapping.html[role-mapping API]. You identify 
users by their `username` field.

The following example uses the role mapping API to map `user@REALM` to the roles 
`monitoring` and `user`:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
POST _xpack/security/role_mapping/kerbrolemapping
{
  "roles" : [ "monitoring_user" ],
  "enabled": true,
  "rules" : {
    "field" : { "username" : "user@REALM" }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

For more information, see {stack-ov}/mapping-roles.html[Mapping users and groups to roles].

NOTE: The Kerberos realm supports
{stack-ov}/realm-chains.html#authorization_realms[authorization realms] as an
alternative to role mapping.

--
