docs/reference/query-dsl/range-query.asciidoc, before:

[[query-dsl-range-query]]
=== Range Query

Matches documents with fields that have terms within a certain range.
The type of the Lucene query depends on the field type, for `string`
fields, the `TermRangeQuery`, while for number/date fields, the query is
a `NumericRangeQuery`. The following example returns all documents where
`age` is between `10` and `20`:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET _search
{
    "query": {
        "range" : {
            "age" : {
                "gte" : 10,
                "lte" : 20,
                "boost" : 2.0
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE 

The `range` query accepts the following parameters:

[horizontal]
`gte`:: 	Greater-than or equal to
`gt`::  	Greater-than
`lte`:: 	Less-than or equal to
`lt`::  	Less-than
`boost`:: 	Sets the boost value of the query, defaults to `1.0`


[[ranges-on-dates]]
==== Ranges on date fields

When running `range` queries on fields of type <<date,`date`>>, ranges can be
specified using <<date-math>>:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET _search
{
    "query": {
        "range" : {
            "date" : {
                "gte" : "now-1d/d",
                "lt" :  "now/d"
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

===== Date math and rounding

When using <<date-math,date math>> to round dates to the nearest day, month,
hour, etc, the rounded dates depend on whether the ends of the ranges are
inclusive or exclusive.

Rounding up moves to the last millisecond of the rounding scope, and rounding
down to the first millisecond of the rounding scope. For example:

[horizontal]
`gt`::

    Greater than the date rounded up: `2014-11-18||/M` becomes
    `2014-11-30T23:59:59.999`, ie excluding the entire month.

`gte`::

    Greater than or equal to the date rounded down: `2014-11-18||/M` becomes
    `2014-11-01`, ie including the entire month.

`lt`::

    Less than the date rounded down: `2014-11-18||/M` becomes `2014-11-01`, ie
    excluding the entire month.

`lte`::

    Less than or equal to the date rounded up: `2014-11-18||/M` becomes
    `2014-11-30T23:59:59.999`, ie including the entire month.

===== Date format in range queries

Formatted dates will be parsed using the <<mapping-date-format,`format`>>
specified on the <<date,`date`>> field by default, but it can be overridden by
passing the `format` parameter to the `range` query:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET _search
{
    "query": {
        "range" : {
            "born" : {
                "gte": "01/01/2012",
                "lte": "2013",
                "format": "dd/MM/yyyy||yyyy"
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE 

===== Time zone in range queries

Dates can be converted from another timezone to UTC either by specifying the
time zone in the date value itself (if the <<mapping-date-format, `format`>>
accepts it), or it can be specified as the `time_zone` parameter:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET _search
{
    "query": {
        "range" : {
            "timestamp" : {
                "gte": "2015-01-01 00:00:00", <1>
                "lte": "now", <2>
                "time_zone": "+01:00"
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
<1> This date will be converted to `2014-12-31T23:00:00 UTC`.
<2> `now` is not affected by the `time_zone` parameter (dates must be stored as UTC).

Commit message:

[Docs] Explain incomplete dates in range queries (#30689)
The current documentation isn't very clear about how incomplete dates are
treated when specifying custom formats in a `range` query. This change adds a
note explaining how missing month or year coordinates translate to dates that
have the missings slots filled with unix time start date (1970-01-01)

Closes #30634

docs/reference/query-dsl/range-query.asciidoc, after:

[[query-dsl-range-query]]
=== Range Query

Matches documents with fields that have terms within a certain range.
The type of the Lucene query depends on the field type, for `string`
fields, the `TermRangeQuery`, while for number/date fields, the query is
a `NumericRangeQuery`. The following example returns all documents where
`age` is between `10` and `20`:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET _search
{
    "query": {
        "range" : {
            "age" : {
                "gte" : 10,
                "lte" : 20,
                "boost" : 2.0
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE 

The `range` query accepts the following parameters:

[horizontal]
`gte`:: 	Greater-than or equal to
`gt`::  	Greater-than
`lte`:: 	Less-than or equal to
`lt`::  	Less-than
`boost`:: 	Sets the boost value of the query, defaults to `1.0`


[[ranges-on-dates]]
==== Ranges on date fields

When running `range` queries on fields of type <<date,`date`>>, ranges can be
specified using <<date-math>>:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET _search
{
    "query": {
        "range" : {
            "date" : {
                "gte" : "now-1d/d",
                "lt" :  "now/d"
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

===== Date math and rounding

When using <<date-math,date math>> to round dates to the nearest day, month,
hour, etc, the rounded dates depend on whether the ends of the ranges are
inclusive or exclusive.

Rounding up moves to the last millisecond of the rounding scope, and rounding
down to the first millisecond of the rounding scope. For example:

[horizontal]
`gt`::

    Greater than the date rounded up: `2014-11-18||/M` becomes
    `2014-11-30T23:59:59.999`, ie excluding the entire month.

`gte`::

    Greater than or equal to the date rounded down: `2014-11-18||/M` becomes
    `2014-11-01`, ie including the entire month.

`lt`::

    Less than the date rounded down: `2014-11-18||/M` becomes `2014-11-01`, ie
    excluding the entire month.

`lte`::

    Less than or equal to the date rounded up: `2014-11-18||/M` becomes
    `2014-11-30T23:59:59.999`, ie including the entire month.

===== Date format in range queries

Formatted dates will be parsed using the <<mapping-date-format,`format`>>
specified on the <<date,`date`>> field by default, but it can be overridden by
passing the `format` parameter to the `range` query:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET _search
{
    "query": {
        "range" : {
            "born" : {
                "gte": "01/01/2012",
                "lte": "2013",
                "format": "dd/MM/yyyy||yyyy"
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE 

Note that if the date misses some of the year, month and day coordinates, the
missing parts are filled with the start of
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_time[unix time], which is January 1st, 1970.
This means, that when e.g. specifying `dd` as the format, a value like `"gte" : 10`
will translate to `1970-01-10T00:00:00.000Z`.

===== Time zone in range queries

Dates can be converted from another timezone to UTC either by specifying the
time zone in the date value itself (if the <<mapping-date-format, `format`>>
accepts it), or it can be specified as the `time_zone` parameter:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET _search
{
    "query": {
        "range" : {
            "timestamp" : {
                "gte": "2015-01-01 00:00:00", <1>
                "lte": "now", <2>
                "time_zone": "+01:00"
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
<1> This date will be converted to `2014-12-31T23:00:00 UTC`.
<2> `now` is not affected by the `time_zone` parameter (dates must be stored as UTC).
