docs/reference/query-dsl/span-multi-term-query.asciidoc, before:

[[query-dsl-span-multi-term-query]]
=== Span Multi Term Query

The `span_multi` query allows you to wrap a `multi term query` (one of wildcard,
fuzzy, prefix, range or regexp query) as a `span query`, so
it can be nested. Example:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /_search
{
    "query": {
        "span_multi":{
            "match":{
                "prefix" : { "user" :  { "value" : "ki" } }
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

A boost can also be associated with the query:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /_search
{
    "query": {
        "span_multi":{
            "match":{
                "prefix" : { "user" :  { "value" : "ki", "boost" : 1.08 } }
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

WARNING: By default `span_multi queries are rewritten to a `span_or` query
containing **all** the expanded terms. This can be expensive if the number of expanded
terms is large. To avoid an unbounded expansion you can set the
<<query-dsl-multi-term-rewrite,rewrite method>> of the multi term query to `top_terms_*`
rewrite. Or, if you use `span_multi` on `prefix` query only, you can
activate the <<index-prefix-config,`index_prefixes`>> field option of the `text` field instead. This will
rewrite any prefix query on the field to a a single term query that matches the indexed prefix.

Commit message:

Fail `span_multi` queries that exceeds boolean max clause limit (#30913)
By default span_multi query will limit term expansions = boolean max clause.
This will limit high heap usage in case of high cardinality term
expansions. This applies only if top_terms_N is not used in inner multi
query.

docs/reference/query-dsl/span-multi-term-query.asciidoc, after:

[[query-dsl-span-multi-term-query]]
=== Span Multi Term Query

The `span_multi` query allows you to wrap a `multi term query` (one of wildcard,
fuzzy, prefix, range or regexp query) as a `span query`, so
it can be nested. Example:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /_search
{
    "query": {
        "span_multi":{
            "match":{
                "prefix" : { "user" :  { "value" : "ki" } }
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

A boost can also be associated with the query:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /_search
{
    "query": {
        "span_multi":{
            "match":{
                "prefix" : { "user" :  { "value" : "ki", "boost" : 1.08 } }
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

WARNING: `span_multi` queries will hit too many clauses failure if the number of terms that match the query exceeds the
boolean query limit (defaults to 1024).To avoid an unbounded expansion you can set the <<query-dsl-multi-term-rewrite,
rewrite method>> of the multi term query to `top_terms_*` rewrite. Or, if you use `span_multi` on `prefix` query only,
you can activate the <<index-prefix-config,`index_prefixes`>> field option of the `text` field instead. This will
rewrite any prefix query on the field to a a single term query that matches the indexed prefix.
