x-pack/docs/en/sql/index.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[xpack-sql]]
= SQL Access

:sql-tests: {xes-repo-dir}/../../qa/sql
:sql-specs: {sql-tests}/src/main/resources
:jdbc-tests: {sql-tests}/src/main/java/org/elasticsearch/xpack/qa/sql/jdbc
:security-tests: {sql-tests}/security/src/test/java/org/elasticsearch/xpack/qa/sql/security
:es-sql: Elasticsearch SQL

[partintro]
--

experimental[]

X-Pack includes a SQL feature to execute SQL against Elasticsearch
indices and return results in tabular format.

<<sql-overview, Overview>>::
    Overview of {es-sql} and its features.
<<sql-getting-started, Getting Started>>::
    Start using SQL right away in {es}
<<sql-rest,REST API>>::
    Accepts SQL in a JSON document, executes it, and returns the
    results.
<<sql-translate,Translate API>>::
    Accepts SQL in a JSON document and translates it into a native
    Elasticsearch query and returns that.
<<sql-cli,CLI>>::
    Command-line application that connects to {es} to execute
    SQL and print tabular results.
<<sql-jdbc,JDBC>>::
    A JDBC driver for {es}.
<<sql-functions,Functions and Operators>>::
    List of functions and operators supported.
<<sql-spec,SQL Language>>::
    Overview of the {es-sql} language, such as data types, syntax and 
    reserved keywords.

--

include::overview.asciidoc[]
include::getting-started.asciidoc[]
include::endpoints/index.asciidoc[]
include::functions/index.asciidoc[]
include::language/index.asciidoc[]

:jdbc-tests!:

Commit message:

[DOCS] Significantly improve SQL docs
Introduce SQL commands
Move reserved keywords into an appendix
Add section on security
Introduce concepts section

x-pack/docs/en/sql/index.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[xpack-sql]]
= SQL Access

:sql-tests: {xes-repo-dir}/../../qa/sql
:sql-specs: {sql-tests}/src/main/resources
:jdbc-tests: {sql-tests}/src/main/java/org/elasticsearch/xpack/qa/sql/jdbc
:security-tests: {sql-tests}/security/src/test/java/org/elasticsearch/xpack/qa/sql/security
:es-sql: Elasticsearch SQL

[partintro]
--

experimental[]

X-Pack includes a SQL feature to execute SQL against Elasticsearch
indices and return results in tabular format.

<<sql-overview, Overview>>::
    Overview of {es-sql} and its features.
<<sql-getting-started, Getting Started>>::
    Start using SQL right away in {es}.
<<sql-concepts, Concepts and Terminology>>::
    Language conventions across SQL and {es}.
<<sql-security,Security>>::
    Securing {es-sql} and {es}.
<<sql-rest,REST API>>::
    Accepts SQL in a JSON document, executes it, and returns the
    results.
<<sql-translate,Translate API>>::
    Accepts SQL in a JSON document and translates it into a native
    Elasticsearch query and returns that.
<<sql-cli,CLI>>::
    Command-line application that connects to {es} to execute
    SQL and print tabular results.
<<sql-jdbc,JDBC>>::
    A JDBC driver for {es}.
<<sql-functions,Functions and Operators>>::
    List of functions and operators supported.
<<sql-spec,SQL Language>>::
    Overview of the {es-sql} language, such as supported data types, commands and 
    syntax.
--

include::overview.asciidoc[]
include::getting-started.asciidoc[]
include::concepts.asciidoc[]
include::security.asciidoc[]
include::endpoints/index.asciidoc[]
include::functions/index.asciidoc[]
include::language/index.asciidoc[]
include::appendix/index.asciidoc[]

:jdbc-tests!:
