docs/reference/search/uri-request.asciidoc, before:

[[search-uri-request]]
== URI Search

A search request can be executed purely using a URI by providing request
parameters. Not all search options are exposed when executing a search
using this mode, but it can be handy for quick "curl tests". Here is an
example:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET twitter/_search?q=user:kimchy
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[setup:twitter]

And here is a sample response:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "timed_out": false,
    "took": 62,
    "_shards":{
        "total" : 1,
        "successful" : 1,
        "skipped" : 0,
        "failed" : 0
    },
    "hits":{
        "total" : 1,
        "max_score": 1.3862944,
        "hits" : [
            {
                "_index" : "twitter",
                "_type" : "_doc",
                "_id" : "0",
                "_score": 1.3862944,
                "_source" : {
                    "user" : "kimchy",
                    "date" : "2009-11-15T14:12:12",
                    "message" : "trying out Elasticsearch",
                    "likes": 0
                }
            }
        ]
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"took": 62/"took": "$body.took"/]

[float]
=== Parameters

The parameters allowed in the URI are:

[cols="<,<",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Name |Description
|`q` |The query string (maps to the `query_string` query, see
<<query-dsl-query-string-query,_Query String
Query_>> for more details).

|`df` |The default field to use when no field prefix is defined within the
query.

|`analyzer` |The analyzer name to be used when analyzing the query string.

|`analyze_wildcard` |Should wildcard and prefix queries be analyzed or
not. Defaults to `false`.

|`batched_reduce_size` | The number of shard results that should be reduced
at once on the coordinating node. This value should be used as a protection
mechanism to reduce the memory overhead per search request if the potential
number of shards in the request can be large.

|`default_operator` |The default operator to be used, can be `AND` or
`OR`. Defaults to `OR`.

|`lenient` |If set to true will cause format based failures (like
providing text to a numeric field) to be ignored. Defaults to false.

|`explain` |For each hit, contain an explanation of how scoring of the
hits was computed.

|`_source`|Set to `false` to disable retrieval of the `_source` field. You can also retrieve
part of the document by using `_source_include` & `_source_exclude` (see the <<search-request-source-filtering, request body>>
documentation for more details)

|`stored_fields` |The selective stored fields of the document to return for each hit,
comma delimited. Not specifying any value will cause no fields to return.

|`sort` |Sorting to perform. Can either be in the form of `fieldName`, or
`fieldName:asc`/`fieldName:desc`. The fieldName can either be an actual
field within the document, or the special `_score` name to indicate
sorting based on scores. There can be several `sort` parameters (order
is important).

|`track_scores` |When sorting, set to `true` in order to still track
scores and return them as part of each hit.

|`track_total_hits` |Set to `false` in order to disable the tracking
of the total number of hits that match the query.
(see <<index-modules-index-sorting,_Index Sorting_>> for more details).
Defaults to true.

|`timeout` |A search timeout, bounding the search request to be executed
within the specified time value and bail with the hits accumulated up to
that point when expired. Defaults to no timeout.

|`terminate_after` |The maximum number of documents to collect for
each shard, upon reaching which the query execution will terminate early.
If set, the response will have a boolean field `terminated_early` to
indicate whether the query execution has actually terminated_early.
Defaults to no terminate_after.

|`from` |The starting from index of the hits to return. Defaults to `0`.

|`size` |The number of hits to return. Defaults to `10`.

|`search_type` |The type of the search operation to perform. Can be
`dfs_query_then_fetch` or `query_then_fetch`.
Defaults to `query_then_fetch`. See
<<search-request-search-type,_Search Type_>> for
more details on the different types of search that can be performed.

|`allow_partial_search_results` |Set to `false` to return an overall failure if the request would produce
partial results. Defaults to true, which will allow partial results in the case of timeouts
or partial failures..
|=======================================================================

Commit message:

Docs enhancement: added reference to cluster-level setting `search.default_allow_partial_results` (#32810)
Closes #32809

docs/reference/search/uri-request.asciidoc, after:

[[search-uri-request]]
== URI Search

A search request can be executed purely using a URI by providing request
parameters. Not all search options are exposed when executing a search
using this mode, but it can be handy for quick "curl tests". Here is an
example:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET twitter/_search?q=user:kimchy
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[setup:twitter]

And here is a sample response:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "timed_out": false,
    "took": 62,
    "_shards":{
        "total" : 1,
        "successful" : 1,
        "skipped" : 0,
        "failed" : 0
    },
    "hits":{
        "total" : 1,
        "max_score": 1.3862944,
        "hits" : [
            {
                "_index" : "twitter",
                "_type" : "_doc",
                "_id" : "0",
                "_score": 1.3862944,
                "_source" : {
                    "user" : "kimchy",
                    "date" : "2009-11-15T14:12:12",
                    "message" : "trying out Elasticsearch",
                    "likes": 0
                }
            }
        ]
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"took": 62/"took": "$body.took"/]

[float]
=== Parameters

The parameters allowed in the URI are:

[cols="<,<",options="header",]
|=======================================================================
|Name |Description
|`q` |The query string (maps to the `query_string` query, see
<<query-dsl-query-string-query,_Query String
Query_>> for more details).

|`df` |The default field to use when no field prefix is defined within the
query.

|`analyzer` |The analyzer name to be used when analyzing the query string.

|`analyze_wildcard` |Should wildcard and prefix queries be analyzed or
not. Defaults to `false`.

|`batched_reduce_size` | The number of shard results that should be reduced
at once on the coordinating node. This value should be used as a protection
mechanism to reduce the memory overhead per search request if the potential
number of shards in the request can be large.

|`default_operator` |The default operator to be used, can be `AND` or
`OR`. Defaults to `OR`.

|`lenient` |If set to true will cause format based failures (like
providing text to a numeric field) to be ignored. Defaults to false.

|`explain` |For each hit, contain an explanation of how scoring of the
hits was computed.

|`_source`|Set to `false` to disable retrieval of the `_source` field. You can also retrieve
part of the document by using `_source_include` & `_source_exclude` (see the <<search-request-source-filtering, request body>>
documentation for more details)

|`stored_fields` |The selective stored fields of the document to return for each hit,
comma delimited. Not specifying any value will cause no fields to return.

|`sort` |Sorting to perform. Can either be in the form of `fieldName`, or
`fieldName:asc`/`fieldName:desc`. The fieldName can either be an actual
field within the document, or the special `_score` name to indicate
sorting based on scores. There can be several `sort` parameters (order
is important).

|`track_scores` |When sorting, set to `true` in order to still track
scores and return them as part of each hit.

|`track_total_hits` |Set to `false` in order to disable the tracking
of the total number of hits that match the query.
(see <<index-modules-index-sorting,_Index Sorting_>> for more details).
Defaults to true.

|`timeout` |A search timeout, bounding the search request to be executed
within the specified time value and bail with the hits accumulated up to
that point when expired. Defaults to no timeout.

|`terminate_after` |The maximum number of documents to collect for
each shard, upon reaching which the query execution will terminate early.
If set, the response will have a boolean field `terminated_early` to
indicate whether the query execution has actually terminated_early.
Defaults to no terminate_after.

|`from` |The starting from index of the hits to return. Defaults to `0`.

|`size` |The number of hits to return. Defaults to `10`.

|`search_type` |The type of the search operation to perform. Can be
`dfs_query_then_fetch` or `query_then_fetch`.
Defaults to `query_then_fetch`. See
<<search-request-search-type,_Search Type_>> for
more details on the different types of search that can be performed.

|`allow_partial_search_results` |Set to `false` to return an overall failure if the request would produce
partial results. Defaults to true, which will allow partial results in the case of timeouts
or partial failures. This default can be controlled using the cluster-level setting
`search.default_allow_partial_results`.
|=======================================================================
