docs/java-rest/high-level/rollup/put_job.asciidoc, before:

[[java-rest-high-x-pack-rollup-put-job]]
=== Put Rollup Job API

The Put Rollup Job API can be used to create a new Rollup job
in the cluster. The API accepts a `PutRollupJobRequest` object
as a request and returns a `PutRollupJobResponse`.

[[java-rest-high-x-pack-rollup-put-rollup-job-request]]
==== Put Rollup Job Request

A `PutRollupJobRequest` requires the following argument:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/RollupDocumentationIT.java[x-pack-rollup-put-rollup-job-request]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> The configuration of the Rollup job to create as a `RollupJobConfig`

[[java-rest-high-x-pack-rollup-put-rollup-job-config]]
==== Rollup Job Configuration

The `RollupJobConfig` object contains all the details about the rollup job
configuration. See <<rollup-job-config, Rollup configuration>> to learn more
about the various configuration settings.

A `RollupJobConfig` requires the following arguments:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/RollupDocumentationIT.java[x-pack-rollup-put-rollup-job-config]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> The name of the Rollup job
<2> The index (or index pattern) to rollup
<3> The index to store rollup results into
<4> A cron expression which defines when the Rollup job should be executed
<5> The page size to use for the Rollup job
<6> The grouping configuration of the Rollup job as a `GroupConfig`
<7> The metrics configuration of the Rollup job as a list of `MetricConfig`
<8> The timeout value to use for the Rollup job as a `TimeValue`


[[java-rest-high-x-pack-rollup-put-rollup-job-group-config]]
==== Grouping Configuration

The grouping configuration of the Rollup job is defined in the `RollupJobConfig`
using a `GroupConfig` instance. `GroupConfig` reflects all the configuration
settings that can be defined using the REST API. See <<rollup-groups-config, Grouping Config>>
to learn more about these settings.

Using the REST API, we could define this grouping configuration:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
"groups" : {
  "date_histogram": {
    "field": "timestamp",
    "interval": "1h",
    "delay": "7d",
    "time_zone": "UTC"
  },
  "terms": {
    "fields": ["hostname", "datacenter"]
  },
  "histogram": {
    "fields": ["load", "net_in", "net_out"],
    "interval": 5
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// NOTCONSOLE

Using the `GroupConfig` object and the high level REST client, the same
configuration would be:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/RollupDocumentationIT.java[x-pack-rollup-put-rollup-job-group-config]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> The date histogram aggregation to use to rollup up documents, as a `DateHistogramGroupConfig`
<2> The terms aggregation to use to rollup up documents, as a `TermsGroupConfig`
<3> The histogram aggregation to use to rollup up documents, as a `HistogramGroupConfig`
<4> The grouping configuration as a `GroupConfig`


[[java-rest-high-x-pack-rollup-put-rollup-job-metrics-config]]
==== Metrics Configuration

After defining which groups should be generated for the data, you next configure
which metrics should be collected. The list of metrics is defined in the `RollupJobConfig`
using a `List<MetricConfig>` instance. `MetricConfig` reflects all the configuration
settings that can be defined using the REST API. See <<rollup-metrics-config, Metrics Config>>
to learn more about these settings.

Using the REST API, we could define this metrics configuration:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
"metrics": [
    {
        "field": "temperature",
        "metrics": ["min", "max", "sum"]
    },
    {
        "field": "voltage",
        "metrics": ["avg", "value_count"]
    }
]
--------------------------------------------------
// NOTCONSOLE

Using the `MetricConfig` object and the high level REST client, the same
configuration would be:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/RollupDocumentationIT.java[x-pack-rollup-put-rollup-job-metrics-config]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> The list of `MetricConfig` to configure in the  `RollupJobConfig`
<2> Adds the metrics to compute on the `temperature` field
<3> Adds the metrics to compute on the `voltage` field


[[java-rest-high-x-pack-rollup-put-rollup-job-execution]]
==== Execution

The Put Rollup Job API can be executed through a `RollupClient`
instance. Such instance can be retrieved from a `RestHighLevelClient`
using the `rollup()` method:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/RollupDocumentationIT.java[x-pack-rollup-put-rollup-job-execute]
--------------------------------------------------

[[java-rest-high-x-pack-rollup-put-rollup-job-response]]
==== Response

The returned `PutRollupJobResponse` indicates if the new Rollup job
has been successfully created:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/RollupDocumentationIT.java[x-pack-rollup-put-rollup-job-response]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> `acknowledged` is a boolean indicating whether the job was successfully created

[[java-rest-high-x-pack-rollup-put-rollup-job-async]]
==== Asynchronous Execution

This request can be executed asynchronously:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/RollupDocumentationIT.java[x-pack-rollup-put-rollup-job-execute-async]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> The `PutRollupJobRequest` to execute and the `ActionListener` to use when
the execution completes

The asynchronous method does not block and returns immediately. Once it is
completed the `ActionListener` is called back using the `onResponse` method
if the execution successfully completed or using the `onFailure` method if
it failed.

A typical listener for `PutRollupJobResponse` looks like:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/RollupDocumentationIT.java[x-pack-rollup-put-rollup-job-execute-listener]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> Called when the execution is successfully completed. The response is
provided as an argument
<2> Called in case of failure. The raised exception is provided as an argument

Commit message:

[Docs] Fix broken external links in HLRC Rollup documentation
Another attempt. Introduced in #33521

docs/java-rest/high-level/rollup/put_job.asciidoc, after:

[[java-rest-high-x-pack-rollup-put-job]]
=== Put Rollup Job API

The Put Rollup Job API can be used to create a new Rollup job
in the cluster. The API accepts a `PutRollupJobRequest` object
as a request and returns a `PutRollupJobResponse`.

[[java-rest-high-x-pack-rollup-put-rollup-job-request]]
==== Put Rollup Job Request

A `PutRollupJobRequest` requires the following argument:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/RollupDocumentationIT.java[x-pack-rollup-put-rollup-job-request]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> The configuration of the Rollup job to create as a `RollupJobConfig`

[[java-rest-high-x-pack-rollup-put-rollup-job-config]]
==== Rollup Job Configuration

The `RollupJobConfig` object contains all the details about the rollup job
configuration. See {ref}/rollup-job-config.html[Rollup configuration] to learn more
about the various configuration settings.

A `RollupJobConfig` requires the following arguments:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/RollupDocumentationIT.java[x-pack-rollup-put-rollup-job-config]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> The name of the Rollup job
<2> The index (or index pattern) to rollup
<3> The index to store rollup results into
<4> A cron expression which defines when the Rollup job should be executed
<5> The page size to use for the Rollup job
<6> The grouping configuration of the Rollup job as a `GroupConfig`
<7> The metrics configuration of the Rollup job as a list of `MetricConfig`
<8> The timeout value to use for the Rollup job as a `TimeValue`


[[java-rest-high-x-pack-rollup-put-rollup-job-group-config]]
==== Grouping Configuration

The grouping configuration of the Rollup job is defined in the `RollupJobConfig`
using a `GroupConfig` instance. `GroupConfig` reflects all the configuration
settings that can be defined using the REST API. See {ref}/rollup-job-config.html#rollup-groups-config[Grouping Config]
to learn more about these settings.

Using the REST API, we could define this grouping configuration:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
"groups" : {
  "date_histogram": {
    "field": "timestamp",
    "interval": "1h",
    "delay": "7d",
    "time_zone": "UTC"
  },
  "terms": {
    "fields": ["hostname", "datacenter"]
  },
  "histogram": {
    "fields": ["load", "net_in", "net_out"],
    "interval": 5
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// NOTCONSOLE

Using the `GroupConfig` object and the high level REST client, the same
configuration would be:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/RollupDocumentationIT.java[x-pack-rollup-put-rollup-job-group-config]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> The date histogram aggregation to use to rollup up documents, as a `DateHistogramGroupConfig`
<2> The terms aggregation to use to rollup up documents, as a `TermsGroupConfig`
<3> The histogram aggregation to use to rollup up documents, as a `HistogramGroupConfig`
<4> The grouping configuration as a `GroupConfig`


[[java-rest-high-x-pack-rollup-put-rollup-job-metrics-config]]
==== Metrics Configuration

After defining which groups should be generated for the data, you next configure
which metrics should be collected. The list of metrics is defined in the `RollupJobConfig`
using a `List<MetricConfig>` instance. `MetricConfig` reflects all the configuration
settings that can be defined using the REST API. See {ref}/rollup-job-config.html#rollup-metrics-config[Metrics Config]
to learn more about these settings.

Using the REST API, we could define this metrics configuration:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
"metrics": [
    {
        "field": "temperature",
        "metrics": ["min", "max", "sum"]
    },
    {
        "field": "voltage",
        "metrics": ["avg", "value_count"]
    }
]
--------------------------------------------------
// NOTCONSOLE

Using the `MetricConfig` object and the high level REST client, the same
configuration would be:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/RollupDocumentationIT.java[x-pack-rollup-put-rollup-job-metrics-config]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> The list of `MetricConfig` to configure in the  `RollupJobConfig`
<2> Adds the metrics to compute on the `temperature` field
<3> Adds the metrics to compute on the `voltage` field


[[java-rest-high-x-pack-rollup-put-rollup-job-execution]]
==== Execution

The Put Rollup Job API can be executed through a `RollupClient`
instance. Such instance can be retrieved from a `RestHighLevelClient`
using the `rollup()` method:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/RollupDocumentationIT.java[x-pack-rollup-put-rollup-job-execute]
--------------------------------------------------

[[java-rest-high-x-pack-rollup-put-rollup-job-response]]
==== Response

The returned `PutRollupJobResponse` indicates if the new Rollup job
has been successfully created:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/RollupDocumentationIT.java[x-pack-rollup-put-rollup-job-response]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> `acknowledged` is a boolean indicating whether the job was successfully created

[[java-rest-high-x-pack-rollup-put-rollup-job-async]]
==== Asynchronous Execution

This request can be executed asynchronously:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/RollupDocumentationIT.java[x-pack-rollup-put-rollup-job-execute-async]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> The `PutRollupJobRequest` to execute and the `ActionListener` to use when
the execution completes

The asynchronous method does not block and returns immediately. Once it is
completed the `ActionListener` is called back using the `onResponse` method
if the execution successfully completed or using the `onFailure` method if
it failed.

A typical listener for `PutRollupJobResponse` looks like:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/RollupDocumentationIT.java[x-pack-rollup-put-rollup-job-execute-listener]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> Called when the execution is successfully completed. The response is
provided as an argument
<2> Called in case of failure. The raised exception is provided as an argument
