docs/reference/migration/migrate_7_0/settings.asciidoc, before:

[[breaking_70_settings_changes]]

=== Settings changes

==== Percolator

* The deprecated `index.percolator.map_unmapped_fields_as_string` setting has been removed in favour of
  the `index.percolator.map_unmapped_fields_as_text` setting.

==== Index thread pool

* Internally, single-document index/delete/update requests are executed as bulk
  requests with a single-document payload. This means that these requests are
  executed on the bulk thread pool. As such, the indexing thread pool is no
  longer needed and has been removed. As such, the  settings
  `thread_pool.index.size` and `thread_pool.index.queue_size` have been removed.

[[write-thread-pool-fallback]]
==== Write thread pool fallback

* The bulk thread pool was replaced by the write thread pool in 6.3.0. However,
  for backwards compatibility reasons the name `bulk` was still usable as fallback
  settings `thread_pool.bulk.size` and `thread_pool.bulk.queue_size` for
  `thread_pool.write.size` and `thread_pool.write.queue_size`, respectively, and
  the system property `es.thread_pool.write.use_bulk_as_display_name` was
  available to keep the display output in APIs as `bulk` instead of `write`.
  These fallback settings and this system property have been removed.

[[remove-http-enabled]]
==== Http enabled setting removed

The setting `http.enabled` previously allowed disabling binding to HTTP, only allowing
use of the transport client. This setting has been removed, as the transport client
will be removed in the future, thus requiring HTTP to always be enabled.

Commit message:

Make http pipelining support mandatory (#30695)
This is related to #29500 and #28898. This commit removes the abilitiy
to disable http pipelining. After this commit, any elasticsearch node
will support pipelined requests from a client. Additionally, it extracts
some of the http pipelining work to the server module. This extracted
work is used to implement pipelining for the nio plugin.

docs/reference/migration/migrate_7_0/settings.asciidoc, after:

[[breaking_70_settings_changes]]

=== Settings changes

==== Percolator

* The deprecated `index.percolator.map_unmapped_fields_as_string` setting has been removed in favour of
  the `index.percolator.map_unmapped_fields_as_text` setting.

==== Index thread pool

* Internally, single-document index/delete/update requests are executed as bulk
  requests with a single-document payload. This means that these requests are
  executed on the bulk thread pool. As such, the indexing thread pool is no
  longer needed and has been removed. As such, the  settings
  `thread_pool.index.size` and `thread_pool.index.queue_size` have been removed.

[[write-thread-pool-fallback]]
==== Write thread pool fallback

* The bulk thread pool was replaced by the write thread pool in 6.3.0. However,
  for backwards compatibility reasons the name `bulk` was still usable as fallback
  settings `thread_pool.bulk.size` and `thread_pool.bulk.queue_size` for
  `thread_pool.write.size` and `thread_pool.write.queue_size`, respectively, and
  the system property `es.thread_pool.write.use_bulk_as_display_name` was
  available to keep the display output in APIs as `bulk` instead of `write`.
  These fallback settings and this system property have been removed.

[[remove-http-enabled]]
==== Http enabled setting removed

* The setting `http.enabled` previously allowed disabling binding to HTTP, only allowing
use of the transport client. This setting has been removed, as the transport client
will be removed in the future, thus requiring HTTP to always be enabled.

[[remove-http-pipelining-setting]]
==== Http pipelining setting removed

* The setting `http.pipelining` previously allowed disabling HTTP pipelining support.
This setting has been removed, as disabling http pipelining support on the server
provided little value. The setting `http.pipelining.max_events` can still be used to
limit the number of pipelined requests in-flight.
