x-pack/docs/en/watcher/encrypting-data.asciidoc, before:

[[encrypting-data]]
== Encrypting Sensitive Data in {watcher}

Watches might have access to sensitive data such as HTTP basic authentication
information or details about your SMTP email service. You can encrypt this
data by generating a key and adding some secure settings on each node in your
cluster.

To encrypt sensitive data in {watcher}:

. Use the {ref}/syskeygen.html[elasticsearch-syskeygen] command to create a system key file.

. Copy the `system_key` file to all of the nodes in your cluster.
+
--
IMPORTANT: The system key is a symmetric key, so the same key must be used on
every node in the cluster.

--

. Set the
{ref}/notification-settings.html[`xpack.watcher.encrypt_sensitive_data` setting]:
+
--

[source,sh]
----------------------------------------------------------------
xpack.watcher.encrypt_sensitive_data: true
----------------------------------------------------------------
--

. Set the
{ref}/notification-settings.html[`xpack.watcher.encryption_key` setting] in the
{ref}/secure-settings.html[{es} keystore] on each node in the cluster.
+
--
For example, run the following command to import the `system_key` file on
each node:

[source,sh]
----------------------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-keystore add-file xpack.watcher.encryption_key <filepath>/system_key
----------------------------------------------------------------
--

. Delete the `system_key` file on each node in the cluster.

NOTE: Existing watches are not affected by these changes. Only watches that you
create after following these steps have encryption enabled.

Commit message:

Docs: Clarify sensitive fields watcher encryption (#31551)
Clarify the scope of encrypting sensitive settings in watcher, which fields
are encrypted and if users can have their own encrypted fields.

x-pack/docs/en/watcher/encrypting-data.asciidoc, after:

[[encrypting-data]]
== Encrypting Sensitive Data in {watcher}

Watches might have access to sensitive data such as HTTP basic authentication
information or details about your SMTP email service. You can encrypt this
data by generating a key and adding some secure settings on each node in your
cluster.

Every `password` field that is used in your watch within a HTTP basic
authentication block - for example within a webhook, a HTTP input or when using
the reporting email attachment - will not be stored as plain text anymore. Also
be aware, that there is no way to configure your own fields in a watch to be
encrypted.

To encrypt sensitive data in {watcher}:

. Use the {ref}/syskeygen.html[elasticsearch-syskeygen] command to create a system key file.

. Copy the `system_key` file to all of the nodes in your cluster.
+
--
IMPORTANT: The system key is a symmetric key, so the same key must be used on
every node in the cluster.

--

. Set the
{ref}/notification-settings.html[`xpack.watcher.encrypt_sensitive_data` setting]:
+
--

[source,sh]
----------------------------------------------------------------
xpack.watcher.encrypt_sensitive_data: true
----------------------------------------------------------------
--

. Set the
{ref}/notification-settings.html[`xpack.watcher.encryption_key` setting] in the
{ref}/secure-settings.html[{es} keystore] on each node in the cluster.
+
--
For example, run the following command to import the `system_key` file on
each node:

[source,sh]
----------------------------------------------------------------
bin/elasticsearch-keystore add-file xpack.watcher.encryption_key <filepath>/system_key
----------------------------------------------------------------
--

. Delete the `system_key` file on each node in the cluster.

NOTE: Existing watches are not affected by these changes. Only watches that you
create after following these steps have encryption enabled.
