x-pack/docs/en/rest-api/security.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[security-api]]
== Security APIs

You can use the following APIs to perform {security} activities.

* <<security-api-authenticate>>
* <<security-api-clear-cache>>
* <<security-api-privileges>>
* <<security-api-role-mapping>>
* <<security-api-ssl>>
* <<security-api-tokens>>
* <<security-api-users>>

[float]
[[security-role-apis]]
=== Roles

You can use the following APIs to add, remove, and retrieve roles in the native realm:

* <<security-api-put-role,Create role>>, <<security-api-delete-role,Delete role>>
* <<security-api-clear-role-cache,Clear roles cache>>
* <<security-api-get-role,Get roles>>

include::security/authenticate.asciidoc[]
include::security/change-password.asciidoc[]
include::security/clear-cache.asciidoc[]
include::security/clear-roles-cache.asciidoc[]
include::security/create-roles.asciidoc[]
include::security/delete-roles.asciidoc[]
include::security/get-roles.asciidoc[]
include::security/privileges.asciidoc[]
include::security/role-mapping.asciidoc[]
include::security/ssl.asciidoc[]
include::security/tokens.asciidoc[]
include::security/users.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

[DOCS] Splits the token APIs into separate pages (#32865)

x-pack/docs/en/rest-api/security.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[security-api]]
== Security APIs

You can use the following APIs to perform {security} activities.

* <<security-api-authenticate>>
* <<security-api-clear-cache>>
* <<security-api-privileges>>
* <<security-api-role-mapping>>
* <<security-api-ssl>>
* <<security-api-users>>

[float]
[[security-role-apis]]
=== Roles

You can use the following APIs to add, remove, and retrieve roles in the native realm:

* <<security-api-put-role,Create role>>, <<security-api-delete-role,Delete role>>
* <<security-api-clear-role-cache,Clear roles cache>>
* <<security-api-get-role,Get roles>>

[float]
[[security-token-apis]]
=== Tokens

You can use the following APIs to create and invalidate bearer tokens for access
without requiring basic authentication:

* <<security-api-get-token,Get token>>, <<security-api-invalidate-token,Invalidate token>>

include::security/authenticate.asciidoc[]
include::security/change-password.asciidoc[]
include::security/clear-cache.asciidoc[]
include::security/clear-roles-cache.asciidoc[]
include::security/create-roles.asciidoc[]
include::security/delete-roles.asciidoc[]
include::security/delete-tokens.asciidoc[]
include::security/get-roles.asciidoc[]
include::security/get-tokens.asciidoc[]
include::security/privileges.asciidoc[]
include::security/role-mapping.asciidoc[]
include::security/ssl.asciidoc[]
include::security/users.asciidoc[]
