docs/java-rest/high-level/snapshot/create_snapshot.asciidoc, before:

[[java-rest-high-snapshot-create-snapshot]]
=== Create Snapshot API

Use the Create Snapshot API to create a new snapshot.

[[java-rest-high-snapshot-create-snapshot-request]]
==== Create Snapshot Request

A `CreateSnapshotRequest`:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/SnapshotClientDocumentationIT.java[create-snapshot-request]
--------------------------------------------------

==== Required Arguments
The following arguments are mandatory:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/SnapshotClientDocumentationIT.java[create-snapshot-request-repositoryName]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> The name of the repository.

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/SnapshotClientDocumentationIT.java[create-snapshot-request-snapshotName]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> The name of the snapshot.

==== Optional Arguments
The following arguments are optional:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/SnapshotClientDocumentationIT.java[create-snapshot-request-indices]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> A list of indices the snapshot is applied to.

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/SnapshotClientDocumentationIT.java[create-snapshot-request-indicesOptions]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> Options applied to the indices.

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/SnapshotClientDocumentationIT.java[create-snapshot-request-partial]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> Set `partial` to `true` to allow a successful snapshot without the
availability of all the indices primary shards. Defaults to `false`.

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/SnapshotClientDocumentationIT.java[create-snapshot-request-includeGlobalState]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> Set `includeGlobalState` to `false` to prevent writing the cluster's global
state as part of the snapshot. Defaults to `true`.

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/SnapshotClientDocumentationIT.java[create-snapshot-request-masterTimeout]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> Timeout to connect to the master node as a `TimeValue`.
<2> Timeout to connect to the master node as a `String`.

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/SnapshotClientDocumentationIT.java[create-snapshot-request-waitForCompletion]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> Waits for the snapshot to be completed before a response is returned.

[[java-rest-high-snapshot-create-snapshot-sync]]
==== Synchronous Execution

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/SnapshotClientDocumentationIT.java[create-snapshot-execute]
--------------------------------------------------

[[java-rest-high-snapshot-create-snapshot-async]]
==== Asynchronous Execution

The asynchronous execution of a create snapshot request requires both the
`CreateSnapshotRequest` instance and an `ActionListener` instance to be
passed as arguments to the asynchronous method:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/SnapshotClientDocumentationIT.java[create-snapshot-execute-async]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> The `CreateSnapshotRequest` to execute and the `ActionListener` to use when
the execution completes.

The asynchronous method does not block and returns immediately. Once it is
completed the `ActionListener` is called back with the `onResponse` method
if the execution is successful or the `onFailure` method if the execution
failed.

A typical listener for `CreateSnapshotResponse` looks like:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/SnapshotClientDocumentationIT.java[create-snapshot-execute-listener]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> Called when the execution is successfully completed. The response is
provided as an argument.
<2> Called in case of a failure. The raised exception is provided as an
argument.

[[java-rest-high-snapshot-create-snapshot-response]]
==== Snapshot Create Response

Use the `CreateSnapshotResponse` to retrieve information about the evaluated
request:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/SnapshotClientDocumentationIT.java[create-snapshot-response]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> Indicates the node has started the request.

Commit message:

Clean Up Snapshot Create Rest API (#31779)
Make SnapshotInfo and CreateSnapshotResponse parsers lenient for backwards compatibility.  Remove extraneous fields from CreateSnapshotRequest toXContent.

docs/java-rest/high-level/snapshot/create_snapshot.asciidoc, after:

[[java-rest-high-snapshot-create-snapshot]]
=== Create Snapshot API

Use the Create Snapshot API to create a new snapshot.

[[java-rest-high-snapshot-create-snapshot-request]]
==== Create Snapshot Request

A `CreateSnapshotRequest`:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/SnapshotClientDocumentationIT.java[create-snapshot-request]
--------------------------------------------------

==== Required Arguments
The following arguments are mandatory:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/SnapshotClientDocumentationIT.java[create-snapshot-request-repositoryName]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> The name of the repository.

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/SnapshotClientDocumentationIT.java[create-snapshot-request-snapshotName]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> The name of the snapshot.

==== Optional Arguments
The following arguments are optional:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/SnapshotClientDocumentationIT.java[create-snapshot-request-indices]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> A list of indices the snapshot is applied to.

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/SnapshotClientDocumentationIT.java[create-snapshot-request-indicesOptions]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> Options applied to the indices.

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/SnapshotClientDocumentationIT.java[create-snapshot-request-partial]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> Set `partial` to `true` to allow a successful snapshot without the
availability of all the indices primary shards. Defaults to `false`.

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/SnapshotClientDocumentationIT.java[create-snapshot-request-includeGlobalState]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> Set `includeGlobalState` to `false` to prevent writing the cluster's global
state as part of the snapshot. Defaults to `true`.

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/SnapshotClientDocumentationIT.java[create-snapshot-request-masterTimeout]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> Timeout to connect to the master node as a `TimeValue`.
<2> Timeout to connect to the master node as a `String`.

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/SnapshotClientDocumentationIT.java[create-snapshot-request-waitForCompletion]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> Waits for the snapshot to be completed before a response is returned.

[[java-rest-high-snapshot-create-snapshot-sync]]
==== Synchronous Execution

Execute a `CreateSnapshotRequest` synchronously to receive a `CreateSnapshotResponse`.

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/SnapshotClientDocumentationIT.java[create-snapshot-execute]
--------------------------------------------------

Retrieve the `SnapshotInfo` from a `CreateSnapshotResponse` when the snapshot is fully created.
(The `waitForCompletion` parameter is `true`).

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/SnapshotClientDocumentationIT.java[create-snapshot-response-snapshot-info]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> The `SnapshotInfo` object.

[[java-rest-high-snapshot-create-snapshot-async]]
==== Asynchronous Execution

The asynchronous execution of a create snapshot request requires both the
`CreateSnapshotRequest` instance and an `ActionListener` instance to be
passed as arguments to the asynchronous method:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/SnapshotClientDocumentationIT.java[create-snapshot-execute-async]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> The `CreateSnapshotRequest` to execute and the `ActionListener` to use when
the execution completes.

The asynchronous method does not block and returns immediately. Once it is
completed the `ActionListener` is called back with the `onResponse` method
if the execution is successful or the `onFailure` method if the execution
failed.

A typical listener for `CreateSnapshotResponse` looks like:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/SnapshotClientDocumentationIT.java[create-snapshot-execute-listener]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> Called when the execution is successfully completed. The response is
provided as an argument.
<2> Called in case of a failure. The raised exception is provided as an
argument.

[[java-rest-high-snapshot-create-snapshot-response]]
==== Snapshot Create Response

Use the `CreateSnapshotResponse` to retrieve information about the evaluated
request:

["source","java",subs="attributes,callouts,macros"]
--------------------------------------------------
include-tagged::{doc-tests}/SnapshotClientDocumentationIT.java[create-snapshot-response]
--------------------------------------------------
<1> Indicates the node has started the request.
