docs/reference/modules/indices/circuit_breaker.asciidoc, before:

[[circuit-breaker]]
=== Circuit Breaker

Elasticsearch contains multiple circuit breakers used to prevent operations from
causing an OutOfMemoryError. Each breaker specifies a limit for how much memory
it can use. Additionally, there is a parent-level breaker that specifies the
total amount of memory that can be used across all breakers.

These settings can be dynamically updated on a live cluster with the
<<cluster-update-settings,cluster-update-settings>> API.

[[parent-circuit-breaker]]
[float]
==== Parent circuit breaker

The parent-level breaker can be configured with the following setting:

`indices.breaker.total.limit`::

    Starting limit for overall parent breaker, defaults to 70% of JVM heap.

[[fielddata-circuit-breaker]]
[float]
==== Field data circuit breaker
The field data circuit breaker allows Elasticsearch to estimate the amount of
memory a field will require to be loaded into memory. It can then prevent the
field data loading by raising an exception. By default the limit is configured
to 60% of the maximum JVM heap. It can be configured with the following
parameters:

`indices.breaker.fielddata.limit`::

    Limit for fielddata breaker, defaults to 60% of JVM heap

`indices.breaker.fielddata.overhead`::

    A constant that all field data estimations are multiplied with to determine a
    final estimation. Defaults to 1.03

[[request-circuit-breaker]]
[float]
==== Request circuit breaker

The request circuit breaker allows Elasticsearch to prevent per-request data
structures (for example, memory used for calculating aggregations during a
request) from exceeding a certain amount of memory.

`indices.breaker.request.limit`::

    Limit for request breaker, defaults to 60% of JVM heap

`indices.breaker.request.overhead`::

    A constant that all request estimations are multiplied with to determine a
    final estimation. Defaults to 1

[[in-flight-circuit-breaker]]
[float]
==== In flight requests circuit breaker

The in flight requests circuit breaker allows Elasticsearch to limit the memory usage of all
currently active incoming requests on transport or HTTP level from exceeding a certain amount of
memory on a node. The memory usage is based on the content length of the request itself.

`network.breaker.inflight_requests.limit`::

    Limit for in flight requests breaker, defaults to 100% of JVM heap. This means that it is bound
    by the limit configured for the parent circuit breaker.

`network.breaker.inflight_requests.overhead`::

    A constant that all in flight requests estimations are multiplied with to determine a
    final estimation. Defaults to 1

[[accounting-circuit-breaker]]
[float]
==== Accounting requests circuit breaker

The accounting circuit breaker allows Elasticsearch to limit the memory
usage of things held in memory that are not released when a request is
completed. This includes things like the Lucene segment memory.

`indices.breaker.accounting.limit`::

    Limit for accounting breaker, defaults to 100% of JVM heap. This means that it is bound
    by the limit configured for the parent circuit breaker.

`indices.breaker.accounting.overhead`::

    A constant that all accounting estimations are multiplied with to determine a
    final estimation. Defaults to 1

[[script-compilation-circuit-breaker]]
[float]
==== Script compilation circuit breaker

Slightly different than the previous memory-based circuit breaker, the script
compilation circuit breaker limits the number of inline script compilations
within a period of time.

See the "prefer-parameters" section of the <<modules-scripting-using,scripting>>
documentation for more information.

`script.max_compilations_rate`::

    Limit for the number of unique dynamic scripts within a certain interval
    that are allowed to be compiled. Defaults to 75/5m, meaning 75 every 5 
    minutes.

Commit message:

Account for XContent overhead in in-flight breaker
So far the in-flight request circuit breaker has only accounted for the
on-the-wire representation of a request. However, we convert the raw
request into XContent internally which increases the overhead.
Therefore, we increase the value of the corresponding setting
`network.breaker.inflight_requests.overhead` from one to two. While this
value is still rather conservative (we assume that the representation as
structured objects has no overhead compared to the byte[]), it is closer
to reality than the current value.

Relates #31613

docs/reference/modules/indices/circuit_breaker.asciidoc, after:

[[circuit-breaker]]
=== Circuit Breaker

Elasticsearch contains multiple circuit breakers used to prevent operations from
causing an OutOfMemoryError. Each breaker specifies a limit for how much memory
it can use. Additionally, there is a parent-level breaker that specifies the
total amount of memory that can be used across all breakers.

These settings can be dynamically updated on a live cluster with the
<<cluster-update-settings,cluster-update-settings>> API.

[[parent-circuit-breaker]]
[float]
==== Parent circuit breaker

The parent-level breaker can be configured with the following setting:

`indices.breaker.total.limit`::

    Starting limit for overall parent breaker, defaults to 70% of JVM heap.

[[fielddata-circuit-breaker]]
[float]
==== Field data circuit breaker
The field data circuit breaker allows Elasticsearch to estimate the amount of
memory a field will require to be loaded into memory. It can then prevent the
field data loading by raising an exception. By default the limit is configured
to 60% of the maximum JVM heap. It can be configured with the following
parameters:

`indices.breaker.fielddata.limit`::

    Limit for fielddata breaker, defaults to 60% of JVM heap

`indices.breaker.fielddata.overhead`::

    A constant that all field data estimations are multiplied with to determine a
    final estimation. Defaults to 1.03

[[request-circuit-breaker]]
[float]
==== Request circuit breaker

The request circuit breaker allows Elasticsearch to prevent per-request data
structures (for example, memory used for calculating aggregations during a
request) from exceeding a certain amount of memory.

`indices.breaker.request.limit`::

    Limit for request breaker, defaults to 60% of JVM heap

`indices.breaker.request.overhead`::

    A constant that all request estimations are multiplied with to determine a
    final estimation. Defaults to 1

[[in-flight-circuit-breaker]]
[float]
==== In flight requests circuit breaker

The in flight requests circuit breaker allows Elasticsearch to limit the memory usage of all
currently active incoming requests on transport or HTTP level from exceeding a certain amount of
memory on a node. The memory usage is based on the content length of the request itself. This
circuit breaker also considers that memory is not only needed for representing the raw request but
also as a structured object which is reflected by default overhead.

`network.breaker.inflight_requests.limit`::

    Limit for in flight requests breaker, defaults to 100% of JVM heap. This means that it is bound
    by the limit configured for the parent circuit breaker.

`network.breaker.inflight_requests.overhead`::

    A constant that all in flight requests estimations are multiplied with to determine a
    final estimation. Defaults to 2.

[[accounting-circuit-breaker]]
[float]
==== Accounting requests circuit breaker

The accounting circuit breaker allows Elasticsearch to limit the memory
usage of things held in memory that are not released when a request is
completed. This includes things like the Lucene segment memory.

`indices.breaker.accounting.limit`::

    Limit for accounting breaker, defaults to 100% of JVM heap. This means that it is bound
    by the limit configured for the parent circuit breaker.

`indices.breaker.accounting.overhead`::

    A constant that all accounting estimations are multiplied with to determine a
    final estimation. Defaults to 1

[[script-compilation-circuit-breaker]]
[float]
==== Script compilation circuit breaker

Slightly different than the previous memory-based circuit breaker, the script
compilation circuit breaker limits the number of inline script compilations
within a period of time.

See the "prefer-parameters" section of the <<modules-scripting-using,scripting>>
documentation for more information.

`script.max_compilations_rate`::

    Limit for the number of unique dynamic scripts within a certain interval
    that are allowed to be compiled. Defaults to 75/5m, meaning 75 every 5 
    minutes.
