docs/reference/mapping/types/text.asciidoc, before:

[[text]]
=== Text datatype

A field to index full-text values, such as the body of an email or the
description of a product. These fields are `analyzed`, that is they are passed through an
<<analysis,analyzer>> to convert the string into a list of individual terms
before being indexed. The analysis process allows Elasticsearch to search for
individual words _within_  each full text field.  Text fields are not
used for sorting and seldom used for aggregations (although the
<<search-aggregations-bucket-significanttext-aggregation,significant text aggregation>>
is a notable exception).

If you need to index structured content such as email addresses, hostnames, status
codes, or tags, it is likely that you should rather use a <<keyword,`keyword`>> field.

Below is an example of a mapping for a text field:

[source,js]
--------------------------------
PUT my_index
{
  "mappings": {
    "_doc": {
      "properties": {
        "full_name": {
          "type":  "text"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------
// CONSOLE

Sometimes it is useful to have both a full text (`text`) and a keyword
(`keyword`) version of the same field: one for full text search and the
other for aggregations and sorting. This can be achieved with
<<multi-fields,multi-fields>>.

[[text-params]]
==== Parameters for text fields

The following parameters are accepted by `text` fields:

[horizontal]

<<analyzer,`analyzer`>>::

    The <<analysis,analyzer>> which should be used for
    <<mapping-index,`analyzed`>> string fields, both at index-time and at
    search-time (unless overridden by the  <<search-analyzer,`search_analyzer`>>).
    Defaults to the default index analyzer, or the
    <<analysis-standard-analyzer,`standard` analyzer>>.

<<mapping-boost,`boost`>>::

    Mapping field-level query time boosting. Accepts a floating point number, defaults
    to `1.0`.

<<eager-global-ordinals,`eager_global_ordinals`>>::

    Should global ordinals be loaded eagerly on refresh? Accepts `true` or `false`
    (default). Enabling this is a good idea on fields that are frequently used for
    (significant) terms aggregations.

<<fielddata,`fielddata`>>::

    Can the field use in-memory fielddata for sorting, aggregations,
    or scripting? Accepts `true` or `false` (default).

<<field-data-filtering,`fielddata_frequency_filter`>>::

    Expert settings which allow to decide which values to load in memory when `fielddata`
    is enabled. By default all values are loaded.

<<multi-fields,`fields`>>::

    Multi-fields allow the same string value to be indexed in multiple ways for
    different purposes, such as one field for search and a multi-field for
    sorting and aggregations, or the same string value analyzed by different
    analyzers.

<<mapping-index,`index`>>::

    Should the field be searchable? Accepts `true` (default) or `false`.

<<index-options,`index_options`>>::

    What information should be stored in the index, for search and highlighting purposes.
    Defaults to `positions`.

<<index-prefix-config,`index_prefixes`>>::

    If enabled, term prefixes of between 2 and 5 characters are indexed into a
    separate field.  This allows prefix searches to run more efficiently, at
    the expense of a larger index. Accepts an
    <<index-prefix-config,`index-prefix configuration block`>>

<<norms,`norms`>>::

    Whether field-length should be taken into account when scoring queries.
    Accepts `true` (default) or `false`.

<<position-increment-gap,`position_increment_gap`>>::

    The number of fake term position which should be inserted between each
    element of an array of strings. Defaults to the `position_increment_gap`
    configured on the analyzer which defaults to `100`. `100` was chosen because it
    prevents phrase queries with reasonably large slops (less than 100) from
    matching terms across field values.

<<mapping-store,`store`>>::

    Whether the field value should be stored and retrievable separately from
    the <<mapping-source-field,`_source`>> field. Accepts `true` or `false`
    (default).

<<search-analyzer,`search_analyzer`>>::

    The <<analyzer,`analyzer`>> that should be used at search time on
    <<mapping-index,`analyzed`>> fields. Defaults to the `analyzer` setting.

<<search-quote-analyzer,`search_quote_analyzer`>>::

    The <<analyzer,`analyzer`>> that should be used at search time when a
    phrase is encountered. Defaults to the `search_analyzer` setting.

<<similarity,`similarity`>>::

    Which scoring algorithm or _similarity_ should be used. Defaults
    to `BM25`.

<<term-vector,`term_vector`>>::

    Whether term vectors should be stored for an <<mapping-index,`analyzed`>>
    field. Defaults to `no`.

[[index-prefix-config]]
==== Index Prefix configuration

Text fields may also index term prefixes to speed up prefix searches. The `index_prefixes`
parameter is configured as below. Either or both of `min_chars` and `max_chars` may be excluded.
Both values are treated as inclusive

[source,js]
--------------------------------
PUT my_index
{
  "mappings": {
    "_doc": {
      "properties": {
        "full_name": {
          "type":  "text",
          "index_prefixes" : {
            "min_chars" : 1,    <1>
            "max_chars" : 10    <2>
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------
// CONSOLE
<1> `min_chars` must be greater than zero, defaults to 2
<2> `max_chars` must be greater than or equal to `min_chars` and less than 20, defaults to 5

Commit message:

Index phrases (#30450)
Specifying `index_phrases: true` on a text field mapping will add a subsidiary
[field]._index_phrase field, indexing two-term shingles from the parent field.
The parent analysis chain is re-used, wrapped with a FixedShingleFilter.

At query time, if a phrase match query is executed, the mapping will redirect it
to run against the subsidiary field.

This should trade faster phrase querying for a larger index and longer indexing
times.

Relates to #27049

docs/reference/mapping/types/text.asciidoc, after:

[[text]]
=== Text datatype

A field to index full-text values, such as the body of an email or the
description of a product. These fields are `analyzed`, that is they are passed through an
<<analysis,analyzer>> to convert the string into a list of individual terms
before being indexed. The analysis process allows Elasticsearch to search for
individual words _within_  each full text field.  Text fields are not
used for sorting and seldom used for aggregations (although the
<<search-aggregations-bucket-significanttext-aggregation,significant text aggregation>>
is a notable exception).

If you need to index structured content such as email addresses, hostnames, status
codes, or tags, it is likely that you should rather use a <<keyword,`keyword`>> field.

Below is an example of a mapping for a text field:

[source,js]
--------------------------------
PUT my_index
{
  "mappings": {
    "_doc": {
      "properties": {
        "full_name": {
          "type":  "text"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------
// CONSOLE

Sometimes it is useful to have both a full text (`text`) and a keyword
(`keyword`) version of the same field: one for full text search and the
other for aggregations and sorting. This can be achieved with
<<multi-fields,multi-fields>>.

[[text-params]]
==== Parameters for text fields

The following parameters are accepted by `text` fields:

[horizontal]

<<analyzer,`analyzer`>>::

    The <<analysis,analyzer>> which should be used for
    <<mapping-index,`analyzed`>> string fields, both at index-time and at
    search-time (unless overridden by the  <<search-analyzer,`search_analyzer`>>).
    Defaults to the default index analyzer, or the
    <<analysis-standard-analyzer,`standard` analyzer>>.

<<mapping-boost,`boost`>>::

    Mapping field-level query time boosting. Accepts a floating point number, defaults
    to `1.0`.

<<eager-global-ordinals,`eager_global_ordinals`>>::

    Should global ordinals be loaded eagerly on refresh? Accepts `true` or `false`
    (default). Enabling this is a good idea on fields that are frequently used for
    (significant) terms aggregations.

<<fielddata,`fielddata`>>::

    Can the field use in-memory fielddata for sorting, aggregations,
    or scripting? Accepts `true` or `false` (default).

<<field-data-filtering,`fielddata_frequency_filter`>>::

    Expert settings which allow to decide which values to load in memory when `fielddata`
    is enabled. By default all values are loaded.

<<multi-fields,`fields`>>::

    Multi-fields allow the same string value to be indexed in multiple ways for
    different purposes, such as one field for search and a multi-field for
    sorting and aggregations, or the same string value analyzed by different
    analyzers.

<<mapping-index,`index`>>::

    Should the field be searchable? Accepts `true` (default) or `false`.

<<index-options,`index_options`>>::

    What information should be stored in the index, for search and highlighting purposes.
    Defaults to `positions`.

<<index-prefix-config,`index_prefixes`>>::

    If enabled, term prefixes of between 2 and 5 characters are indexed into a
    separate field.  This allows prefix searches to run more efficiently, at
    the expense of a larger index. Accepts an
    <<index-prefix-config,`index-prefix configuration block`>>

<<index-phrases,`index_phrases`>>::

    If enabled, two-term word combinations ('shingles') are indexed into a separate
    field.  This allows exact phrase queries to run more efficiently, at the expense
    of a larger index.  Note that this works best when stopwords are not removed,
    as phrases containing stopwords will not use the subsidiary field and will fall
    back to a standard phrase query.  Accepts `true` or `false` (default).

<<norms,`norms`>>::

    Whether field-length should be taken into account when scoring queries.
    Accepts `true` (default) or `false`.

<<position-increment-gap,`position_increment_gap`>>::

    The number of fake term position which should be inserted between each
    element of an array of strings. Defaults to the `position_increment_gap`
    configured on the analyzer which defaults to `100`. `100` was chosen because it
    prevents phrase queries with reasonably large slops (less than 100) from
    matching terms across field values.

<<mapping-store,`store`>>::

    Whether the field value should be stored and retrievable separately from
    the <<mapping-source-field,`_source`>> field. Accepts `true` or `false`
    (default).

<<search-analyzer,`search_analyzer`>>::

    The <<analyzer,`analyzer`>> that should be used at search time on
    <<mapping-index,`analyzed`>> fields. Defaults to the `analyzer` setting.

<<search-quote-analyzer,`search_quote_analyzer`>>::

    The <<analyzer,`analyzer`>> that should be used at search time when a
    phrase is encountered. Defaults to the `search_analyzer` setting.

<<similarity,`similarity`>>::

    Which scoring algorithm or _similarity_ should be used. Defaults
    to `BM25`.

<<term-vector,`term_vector`>>::

    Whether term vectors should be stored for an <<mapping-index,`analyzed`>>
    field. Defaults to `no`.

[[index-prefix-config]]
==== Index Prefix configuration

Text fields may also index term prefixes to speed up prefix searches. The `index_prefixes`
parameter is configured as below. Either or both of `min_chars` and `max_chars` may be excluded.
Both values are treated as inclusive

[source,js]
--------------------------------
PUT my_index
{
  "mappings": {
    "_doc": {
      "properties": {
        "full_name": {
          "type":  "text",
          "index_prefixes" : {
            "min_chars" : 1,    <1>
            "max_chars" : 10    <2>
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------
// CONSOLE
<1> `min_chars` must be greater than zero, defaults to 2
<2> `max_chars` must be greater than or equal to `min_chars` and less than 20, defaults to 5
