docs/java-rest/high-level/supported-apis.asciidoc, before:

[[java-rest-high-supported-apis]]

== Document APIs

The Java High Level REST Client supports the following Document APIs:

[[single-doc]]
Single document APIs::
* <<java-rest-high-document-index>>
* <<java-rest-high-document-get>>
* <<java-rest-high-document-delete>>
* <<java-rest-high-document-update>>

[[multi-doc]]
Multi-document APIs::
* <<java-rest-high-document-bulk>>
* <<java-rest-high-document-multi-get>>
* <<java-rest-high-document-reindex>>
* <<java-rest-high-document-update-by-query>>
* <<java-rest-high-document-delete-by-query>>

include::document/index.asciidoc[]
include::document/get.asciidoc[]
include::document/exists.asciidoc[]
include::document/delete.asciidoc[]
include::document/update.asciidoc[]
include::document/bulk.asciidoc[]
include::document/multi-get.asciidoc[]
include::document/reindex.asciidoc[]
include::document/update-by-query.asciidoc[]
include::document/delete-by-query.asciidoc[]

== Search APIs

The Java High Level REST Client supports the following Search APIs:

* <<java-rest-high-search>>
* <<java-rest-high-search-scroll>>
* <<java-rest-high-clear-scroll>>
* <<java-rest-high-search-template>>
* <<java-rest-high-multi-search-template>>
* <<java-rest-high-multi-search>>
* <<java-rest-high-field-caps>>
* <<java-rest-high-rank-eval>>
* <<java-rest-high-explain>>

include::search/search.asciidoc[]
include::search/scroll.asciidoc[]
include::search/multi-search.asciidoc[]
include::search/search-template.asciidoc[]
include::search/multi-search-template.asciidoc[]
include::search/field-caps.asciidoc[]
include::search/rank-eval.asciidoc[]
include::search/explain.asciidoc[]

== Miscellaneous APIs

The Java High Level REST Client supports the following Miscellaneous APIs:

* <<java-rest-high-main>>
* <<java-rest-high-ping>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-info>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-usage>>

include::miscellaneous/main.asciidoc[]
include::miscellaneous/ping.asciidoc[]
include::miscellaneous/x-pack-info.asciidoc[]
include::miscellaneous/x-pack-usage.asciidoc[]

== Indices APIs

The Java High Level REST Client supports the following Indices APIs:

Index Management::
* <<java-rest-high-create-index>>
* <<java-rest-high-delete-index>>
* <<java-rest-high-indices-exists>>
* <<java-rest-high-open-index>>
* <<java-rest-high-close-index>>
* <<java-rest-high-shrink-index>>
* <<java-rest-high-split-index>>
* <<java-rest-high-refresh>>
* <<java-rest-high-flush>>
* <<java-rest-high-flush-synced>>
* <<java-rest-high-clear-cache>>
* <<java-rest-high-force-merge>>
* <<java-rest-high-rollover-index>>
* <<java-rest-high-indices-put-settings>>
* <<java-rest-high-get-settings>>
* <<java-rest-high-indices-validate-query>>
* <<java-rest-high-get-index>>

Mapping Management::
* <<java-rest-high-put-mapping>>
* <<java-rest-high-get-mappings>>
* <<java-rest-high-get-field-mappings>>

Alias Management::
* <<java-rest-high-update-aliases>>
* <<java-rest-high-exists-alias>>
* <<java-rest-high-get-alias>>

include::indices/analyze.asciidoc[]
include::indices/create_index.asciidoc[]
include::indices/delete_index.asciidoc[]
include::indices/indices_exists.asciidoc[]
include::indices/open_index.asciidoc[]
include::indices/close_index.asciidoc[]
include::indices/shrink_index.asciidoc[]
include::indices/split_index.asciidoc[]
include::indices/refresh.asciidoc[]
include::indices/flush.asciidoc[]
include::indices/flush_synced.asciidoc[]
include::indices/clear_cache.asciidoc[]
include::indices/force_merge.asciidoc[]
include::indices/rollover.asciidoc[]
include::indices/put_mapping.asciidoc[]
include::indices/get_mappings.asciidoc[]
include::indices/get_field_mappings.asciidoc[]
include::indices/update_aliases.asciidoc[]
include::indices/exists_alias.asciidoc[]
include::indices/get_alias.asciidoc[]
include::indices/put_settings.asciidoc[]
include::indices/get_settings.asciidoc[]
include::indices/put_template.asciidoc[]
include::indices/validate_query.asciidoc[]
include::indices/get_templates.asciidoc[]
include::indices/get_index.asciidoc[]

== Cluster APIs

The Java High Level REST Client supports the following Cluster APIs:

* <<java-rest-high-cluster-put-settings>>
* <<java-rest-high-cluster-get-settings>>
* <<java-rest-high-cluster-health>>

include::cluster/put_settings.asciidoc[]
include::cluster/get_settings.asciidoc[]
include::cluster/health.asciidoc[]

== Ingest APIs
The Java High Level REST Client supports the following Ingest APIs:

* <<java-rest-high-ingest-put-pipeline>>
* <<java-rest-high-ingest-get-pipeline>>
* <<java-rest-high-ingest-delete-pipeline>>
* <<java-rest-high-ingest-simulate-pipeline>>

include::ingest/put_pipeline.asciidoc[]
include::ingest/get_pipeline.asciidoc[]
include::ingest/delete_pipeline.asciidoc[]
include::ingest/simulate_pipeline.asciidoc[]

== Snapshot APIs

The Java High Level REST Client supports the following Snapshot APIs:

* <<java-rest-high-snapshot-get-repository>>
* <<java-rest-high-snapshot-create-repository>>
* <<java-rest-high-snapshot-delete-repository>>
* <<java-rest-high-snapshot-verify-repository>>
* <<java-rest-high-snapshot-create-snapshot>>
* <<java-rest-high-snapshot-get-snapshots>>
* <<java-rest-high-snapshot-snapshots-status>>
* <<java-rest-high-snapshot-delete-snapshot>>

include::snapshot/get_repository.asciidoc[]
include::snapshot/create_repository.asciidoc[]
include::snapshot/delete_repository.asciidoc[]
include::snapshot/verify_repository.asciidoc[]
include::snapshot/create_snapshot.asciidoc[]
include::snapshot/get_snapshots.asciidoc[]
include::snapshot/snapshots_status.asciidoc[]
include::snapshot/delete_snapshot.asciidoc[]

== Tasks APIs

The Java High Level REST Client supports the following Tasks APIs:

* <<java-rest-high-tasks-list>>
* <<java-rest-high-cluster-cancel-tasks>>

include::tasks/list_tasks.asciidoc[]
include::tasks/cancel_tasks.asciidoc[]

== Script APIs

The Java High Level REST Client supports the following Scripts APIs:

* <<java-rest-high-get-stored-script>>
* <<java-rest-high-put-stored-script>>
* <<java-rest-high-delete-stored-script>>

include::script/get_script.asciidoc[]
include::script/put_script.asciidoc[]
include::script/delete_script.asciidoc[]

== Licensing APIs

The Java High Level REST Client supports the following Licensing APIs:

* <<java-rest-high-put-license>>
* <<java-rest-high-get-license>>
* <<java-rest-high-delete-license>>

include::licensing/put-license.asciidoc[]
include::licensing/get-license.asciidoc[]
include::licensing/delete-license.asciidoc[]

== Machine Learning APIs

The Java High Level REST Client supports the following Machine Learning APIs:

* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-put-job>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-get-job>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-delete-job>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-open-job>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-close-job>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-flush-job>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-update-job>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-get-job-stats>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-put-datafeed>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-get-datafeed>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-delete-datafeed>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-forecast-job>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-delete-forecast>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-get-buckets>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-get-overall-buckets>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-get-records>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-post-data>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-get-influencers>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-get-categories>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-put-calendar>>

include::ml/put-job.asciidoc[]
include::ml/get-job.asciidoc[]
include::ml/delete-job.asciidoc[]
include::ml/open-job.asciidoc[]
include::ml/close-job.asciidoc[]
include::ml/update-job.asciidoc[]
include::ml/flush-job.asciidoc[]
include::ml/put-datafeed.asciidoc[]
include::ml/get-datafeed.asciidoc[]
include::ml/delete-datafeed.asciidoc[]
include::ml/get-job-stats.asciidoc[]
include::ml/forecast-job.asciidoc[]
include::ml/delete-forecast.asciidoc[]
include::ml/get-buckets.asciidoc[]
include::ml/get-overall-buckets.asciidoc[]
include::ml/get-records.asciidoc[]
include::ml/post-data.asciidoc[]
include::ml/get-influencers.asciidoc[]
include::ml/get-categories.asciidoc[]
include::ml/put-calendar.asciidoc[]

== Migration APIs

The Java High Level REST Client supports the following Migration APIs:

* <<java-rest-high-migration-get-assistance>>

include::migration/get-assistance.asciidoc[]

== Security APIs

The Java High Level REST Client supports the following Security APIs:

* <<java-rest-high-security-put-user>>
* <<java-rest-high-security-enable-user>>
* <<java-rest-high-security-disable-user>>

include::security/put-user.asciidoc[]
include::security/enable-user.asciidoc[]
include::security/disable-user.asciidoc[]

== Watcher APIs

The Java High Level REST Client supports the following Watcher APIs:

* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-watcher-put-watch>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-watcher-delete-watch>>

include::watcher/put-watch.asciidoc[]
include::watcher/delete-watch.asciidoc[]

== Graph APIs

The Java High Level REST Client supports the following Graph APIs:

* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-graph-explore>>

include::graph/explore.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

Add create rollup job api to high level rest client (#33521)
This commit adds the Create Rollup Job API to the high level REST
client. It supersedes #32703 and adds dedicated request/response
objects so that it does not depend on server side components.

Related #29827

docs/java-rest/high-level/supported-apis.asciidoc, after:

[[java-rest-high-supported-apis]]

== Document APIs

The Java High Level REST Client supports the following Document APIs:

[[single-doc]]
Single document APIs::
* <<java-rest-high-document-index>>
* <<java-rest-high-document-get>>
* <<java-rest-high-document-delete>>
* <<java-rest-high-document-update>>

[[multi-doc]]
Multi-document APIs::
* <<java-rest-high-document-bulk>>
* <<java-rest-high-document-multi-get>>
* <<java-rest-high-document-reindex>>
* <<java-rest-high-document-update-by-query>>
* <<java-rest-high-document-delete-by-query>>

include::document/index.asciidoc[]
include::document/get.asciidoc[]
include::document/exists.asciidoc[]
include::document/delete.asciidoc[]
include::document/update.asciidoc[]
include::document/bulk.asciidoc[]
include::document/multi-get.asciidoc[]
include::document/reindex.asciidoc[]
include::document/update-by-query.asciidoc[]
include::document/delete-by-query.asciidoc[]

== Search APIs

The Java High Level REST Client supports the following Search APIs:

* <<java-rest-high-search>>
* <<java-rest-high-search-scroll>>
* <<java-rest-high-clear-scroll>>
* <<java-rest-high-search-template>>
* <<java-rest-high-multi-search-template>>
* <<java-rest-high-multi-search>>
* <<java-rest-high-field-caps>>
* <<java-rest-high-rank-eval>>
* <<java-rest-high-explain>>

include::search/search.asciidoc[]
include::search/scroll.asciidoc[]
include::search/multi-search.asciidoc[]
include::search/search-template.asciidoc[]
include::search/multi-search-template.asciidoc[]
include::search/field-caps.asciidoc[]
include::search/rank-eval.asciidoc[]
include::search/explain.asciidoc[]

== Miscellaneous APIs

The Java High Level REST Client supports the following Miscellaneous APIs:

* <<java-rest-high-main>>
* <<java-rest-high-ping>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-info>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-usage>>

include::miscellaneous/main.asciidoc[]
include::miscellaneous/ping.asciidoc[]
include::miscellaneous/x-pack-info.asciidoc[]
include::miscellaneous/x-pack-usage.asciidoc[]

== Indices APIs

The Java High Level REST Client supports the following Indices APIs:

Index Management::
* <<java-rest-high-create-index>>
* <<java-rest-high-delete-index>>
* <<java-rest-high-indices-exists>>
* <<java-rest-high-open-index>>
* <<java-rest-high-close-index>>
* <<java-rest-high-shrink-index>>
* <<java-rest-high-split-index>>
* <<java-rest-high-refresh>>
* <<java-rest-high-flush>>
* <<java-rest-high-flush-synced>>
* <<java-rest-high-clear-cache>>
* <<java-rest-high-force-merge>>
* <<java-rest-high-rollover-index>>
* <<java-rest-high-indices-put-settings>>
* <<java-rest-high-get-settings>>
* <<java-rest-high-indices-validate-query>>
* <<java-rest-high-get-index>>

Mapping Management::
* <<java-rest-high-put-mapping>>
* <<java-rest-high-get-mappings>>
* <<java-rest-high-get-field-mappings>>

Alias Management::
* <<java-rest-high-update-aliases>>
* <<java-rest-high-exists-alias>>
* <<java-rest-high-get-alias>>

include::indices/analyze.asciidoc[]
include::indices/create_index.asciidoc[]
include::indices/delete_index.asciidoc[]
include::indices/indices_exists.asciidoc[]
include::indices/open_index.asciidoc[]
include::indices/close_index.asciidoc[]
include::indices/shrink_index.asciidoc[]
include::indices/split_index.asciidoc[]
include::indices/refresh.asciidoc[]
include::indices/flush.asciidoc[]
include::indices/flush_synced.asciidoc[]
include::indices/clear_cache.asciidoc[]
include::indices/force_merge.asciidoc[]
include::indices/rollover.asciidoc[]
include::indices/put_mapping.asciidoc[]
include::indices/get_mappings.asciidoc[]
include::indices/get_field_mappings.asciidoc[]
include::indices/update_aliases.asciidoc[]
include::indices/exists_alias.asciidoc[]
include::indices/get_alias.asciidoc[]
include::indices/put_settings.asciidoc[]
include::indices/get_settings.asciidoc[]
include::indices/put_template.asciidoc[]
include::indices/validate_query.asciidoc[]
include::indices/get_templates.asciidoc[]
include::indices/get_index.asciidoc[]

== Cluster APIs

The Java High Level REST Client supports the following Cluster APIs:

* <<java-rest-high-cluster-put-settings>>
* <<java-rest-high-cluster-get-settings>>
* <<java-rest-high-cluster-health>>

include::cluster/put_settings.asciidoc[]
include::cluster/get_settings.asciidoc[]
include::cluster/health.asciidoc[]

== Ingest APIs
The Java High Level REST Client supports the following Ingest APIs:

* <<java-rest-high-ingest-put-pipeline>>
* <<java-rest-high-ingest-get-pipeline>>
* <<java-rest-high-ingest-delete-pipeline>>
* <<java-rest-high-ingest-simulate-pipeline>>

include::ingest/put_pipeline.asciidoc[]
include::ingest/get_pipeline.asciidoc[]
include::ingest/delete_pipeline.asciidoc[]
include::ingest/simulate_pipeline.asciidoc[]

== Snapshot APIs

The Java High Level REST Client supports the following Snapshot APIs:

* <<java-rest-high-snapshot-get-repository>>
* <<java-rest-high-snapshot-create-repository>>
* <<java-rest-high-snapshot-delete-repository>>
* <<java-rest-high-snapshot-verify-repository>>
* <<java-rest-high-snapshot-create-snapshot>>
* <<java-rest-high-snapshot-get-snapshots>>
* <<java-rest-high-snapshot-snapshots-status>>
* <<java-rest-high-snapshot-delete-snapshot>>

include::snapshot/get_repository.asciidoc[]
include::snapshot/create_repository.asciidoc[]
include::snapshot/delete_repository.asciidoc[]
include::snapshot/verify_repository.asciidoc[]
include::snapshot/create_snapshot.asciidoc[]
include::snapshot/get_snapshots.asciidoc[]
include::snapshot/snapshots_status.asciidoc[]
include::snapshot/delete_snapshot.asciidoc[]

== Tasks APIs

The Java High Level REST Client supports the following Tasks APIs:

* <<java-rest-high-tasks-list>>
* <<java-rest-high-cluster-cancel-tasks>>

include::tasks/list_tasks.asciidoc[]
include::tasks/cancel_tasks.asciidoc[]

== Script APIs

The Java High Level REST Client supports the following Scripts APIs:

* <<java-rest-high-get-stored-script>>
* <<java-rest-high-put-stored-script>>
* <<java-rest-high-delete-stored-script>>

include::script/get_script.asciidoc[]
include::script/put_script.asciidoc[]
include::script/delete_script.asciidoc[]

== Licensing APIs

The Java High Level REST Client supports the following Licensing APIs:

* <<java-rest-high-put-license>>
* <<java-rest-high-get-license>>
* <<java-rest-high-delete-license>>

include::licensing/put-license.asciidoc[]
include::licensing/get-license.asciidoc[]
include::licensing/delete-license.asciidoc[]

== Machine Learning APIs

The Java High Level REST Client supports the following Machine Learning APIs:

* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-put-job>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-get-job>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-delete-job>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-open-job>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-close-job>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-flush-job>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-update-job>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-get-job-stats>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-put-datafeed>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-get-datafeed>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-delete-datafeed>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-forecast-job>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-delete-forecast>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-get-buckets>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-get-overall-buckets>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-get-records>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-post-data>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-get-influencers>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-get-categories>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-ml-put-calendar>>

include::ml/put-job.asciidoc[]
include::ml/get-job.asciidoc[]
include::ml/delete-job.asciidoc[]
include::ml/open-job.asciidoc[]
include::ml/close-job.asciidoc[]
include::ml/update-job.asciidoc[]
include::ml/flush-job.asciidoc[]
include::ml/put-datafeed.asciidoc[]
include::ml/get-datafeed.asciidoc[]
include::ml/delete-datafeed.asciidoc[]
include::ml/get-job-stats.asciidoc[]
include::ml/forecast-job.asciidoc[]
include::ml/delete-forecast.asciidoc[]
include::ml/get-buckets.asciidoc[]
include::ml/get-overall-buckets.asciidoc[]
include::ml/get-records.asciidoc[]
include::ml/post-data.asciidoc[]
include::ml/get-influencers.asciidoc[]
include::ml/get-categories.asciidoc[]
include::ml/put-calendar.asciidoc[]

== Migration APIs

The Java High Level REST Client supports the following Migration APIs:

* <<java-rest-high-migration-get-assistance>>

include::migration/get-assistance.asciidoc[]

== Rollup APIs

The Java High Level REST Client supports the following Rollup APIs:

* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-rollup-put-job>>

include::rollup/put_job.asciidoc[]

== Security APIs

The Java High Level REST Client supports the following Security APIs:

* <<java-rest-high-security-put-user>>
* <<java-rest-high-security-enable-user>>
* <<java-rest-high-security-disable-user>>

include::security/put-user.asciidoc[]
include::security/enable-user.asciidoc[]
include::security/disable-user.asciidoc[]

== Watcher APIs

The Java High Level REST Client supports the following Watcher APIs:

* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-watcher-put-watch>>
* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-watcher-delete-watch>>

include::watcher/put-watch.asciidoc[]
include::watcher/delete-watch.asciidoc[]

== Graph APIs

The Java High Level REST Client supports the following Graph APIs:

* <<java-rest-high-x-pack-graph-explore>>

include::graph/explore.asciidoc[]
