docs/reference/cluster/health.asciidoc, before:

[[cluster-health]]
== Cluster Health

The cluster health API allows to get a very simple status on the health
of the cluster. For example, on a quiet single node cluster with a single index
with one shard and one replica, this:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET _cluster/health
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[s/^/PUT test1\n/]

Returns this:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "cluster_name" : "testcluster",
  "status" : "yellow",
  "timed_out" : false,
  "number_of_nodes" : 1,
  "number_of_data_nodes" : 1,
  "active_primary_shards" : 1,
  "active_shards" : 1,
  "relocating_shards" : 0,
  "initializing_shards" : 0,
  "unassigned_shards" : 1,
  "delayed_unassigned_shards": 0,
  "number_of_pending_tasks" : 0,
  "number_of_in_flight_fetch": 0,
  "task_max_waiting_in_queue_millis": 0,
  "active_shards_percent_as_number": 50.0
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/testcluster/docs_integTestCluster/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"number_of_pending_tasks" : 0,/"number_of_pending_tasks" : $body.number_of_pending_tasks,/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"task_max_waiting_in_queue_millis": 0/"task_max_waiting_in_queue_millis": $body.task_max_waiting_in_queue_millis/]


The API can also be executed against one or more indices to get just the
specified indices health:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /_cluster/health/test1,test2
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[s/^/PUT test1\nPUT test2\n/]

The cluster health status is: `green`, `yellow` or `red`. On the shard
level, a `red` status indicates that the specific shard is not allocated
in the cluster, `yellow` means that the primary shard is allocated but
replicas are not, and `green` means that all shards are allocated. The
index level status is controlled by the worst shard status. The cluster
status is controlled by the worst index status.

One of the main benefits of the API is the ability to wait until the
cluster reaches a certain high water-mark health level. For example, the
following will wait for 50 seconds for the cluster to reach the `yellow`
level (if it reaches the `green` or `yellow` status before 50 seconds elapse,
it will return at that point):

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /_cluster/health?wait_for_status=yellow&timeout=50s
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

[float]
[[request-params]]
=== Request Parameters

The cluster health API accepts the following request parameters:

`level`::
    Can be one of `cluster`, `indices` or `shards`. Controls the
    details level of the health information returned. Defaults to `cluster`.

`wait_for_status`::
    One of `green`, `yellow` or `red`. Will wait (until
    the timeout provided) until the status of the cluster changes to the one
    provided or better, i.e. `green` > `yellow` > `red`. By default, will not
    wait for any status.

`wait_for_no_relocating_shards`::
    A boolean value which controls whether to wait (until the timeout provided)
    for the cluster to have no shard relocations. Defaults to false, which means
    it will not wait for relocating shards.

`wait_for_no_initializing_shards`::
    A boolean value which controls whether to wait (until the timeout provided)
    for the cluster to have no shard initializations. Defaults to false, which means
    it will not wait for initializing shards.

`wait_for_active_shards`::
    A number controlling to how many active shards to wait for, `all` to wait
    for all shards in the cluster to be active, or `0` to not wait. Defaults to `0`.

`wait_for_nodes`::
    The request waits until the specified number `N` of
    nodes is available. It also accepts `>=N`, `<=N`, `>N` and `<N`.
    Alternatively, it is possible to use `ge(N)`, `le(N)`, `gt(N)` and
    `lt(N)` notation.

`timeout`::
    A time based parameter controlling how long to wait if one of
    the wait_for_XXX are provided. Defaults to `30s`.

`local`::
    If `true` returns the local node information and does not provide
    the state from master node. Default: `false`.


The following is an example of getting the cluster health at the
`shards` level:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /_cluster/health/twitter?level=shards
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[setup:twitter]

Commit message:

REST high-level client: add Cluster Health API (#29331)
Relates to #27205

docs/reference/cluster/health.asciidoc, after:

[[cluster-health]]
== Cluster Health

The cluster health API allows to get a very simple status on the health
of the cluster. For example, on a quiet single node cluster with a single index
with one shard and one replica, this:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET _cluster/health
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[s/^/PUT test1\n/]

Returns this:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "cluster_name" : "testcluster",
  "status" : "yellow",
  "timed_out" : false,
  "number_of_nodes" : 1,
  "number_of_data_nodes" : 1,
  "active_primary_shards" : 1,
  "active_shards" : 1,
  "relocating_shards" : 0,
  "initializing_shards" : 0,
  "unassigned_shards" : 1,
  "delayed_unassigned_shards": 0,
  "number_of_pending_tasks" : 0,
  "number_of_in_flight_fetch": 0,
  "task_max_waiting_in_queue_millis": 0,
  "active_shards_percent_as_number": 50.0
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE[s/testcluster/docs_integTestCluster/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"number_of_pending_tasks" : 0,/"number_of_pending_tasks" : $body.number_of_pending_tasks,/]
// TESTRESPONSE[s/"task_max_waiting_in_queue_millis": 0/"task_max_waiting_in_queue_millis": $body.task_max_waiting_in_queue_millis/]


The API can also be executed against one or more indices to get just the
specified indices health:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /_cluster/health/test1,test2
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[s/^/PUT test1\nPUT test2\n/]

The cluster health status is: `green`, `yellow` or `red`. On the shard
level, a `red` status indicates that the specific shard is not allocated
in the cluster, `yellow` means that the primary shard is allocated but
replicas are not, and `green` means that all shards are allocated. The
index level status is controlled by the worst shard status. The cluster
status is controlled by the worst index status.

One of the main benefits of the API is the ability to wait until the
cluster reaches a certain high water-mark health level. For example, the
following will wait for 50 seconds for the cluster to reach the `yellow`
level (if it reaches the `green` or `yellow` status before 50 seconds elapse,
it will return at that point):

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /_cluster/health?wait_for_status=yellow&timeout=50s
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

[float]
[[request-params]]
=== Request Parameters

The cluster health API accepts the following request parameters:

`level`::
    Can be one of `cluster`, `indices` or `shards`. Controls the
    details level of the health information returned. Defaults to `cluster`.

`wait_for_status`::
    One of `green`, `yellow` or `red`. Will wait (until
    the timeout provided) until the status of the cluster changes to the one
    provided or better, i.e. `green` > `yellow` > `red`. By default, will not
    wait for any status.

`wait_for_no_relocating_shards`::
    A boolean value which controls whether to wait (until the timeout provided)
    for the cluster to have no shard relocations. Defaults to false, which means
    it will not wait for relocating shards.

`wait_for_no_initializing_shards`::
    A boolean value which controls whether to wait (until the timeout provided)
    for the cluster to have no shard initializations. Defaults to false, which means
    it will not wait for initializing shards.

`wait_for_active_shards`::
    A number controlling to how many active shards to wait for, `all` to wait
    for all shards in the cluster to be active, or `0` to not wait. Defaults to `0`.

`wait_for_nodes`::
    The request waits until the specified number `N` of
    nodes is available. It also accepts `>=N`, `<=N`, `>N` and `<N`.
    Alternatively, it is possible to use `ge(N)`, `le(N)`, `gt(N)` and
    `lt(N)` notation.

`wait_for_events`::
    Can be one of `immediate`, `urgent`, `high`, `normal`, `low`, `languid`.
    Wait until all currently queued events with the given priority are processed.

`timeout`::
    A time based parameter controlling how long to wait if one of
    the wait_for_XXX are provided. Defaults to `30s`.

`master_timeout`::
    A time based parameter controlling how long to wait if the master has not been
    discovered yet or disconnected.
    If not provided, uses the same value as `timeout`.

`local`::
    If `true` returns the local node information and does not provide
    the state from master node. Default: `false`.


The following is an example of getting the cluster health at the
`shards` level:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /_cluster/health/twitter?level=shards
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[setup:twitter]
