x-pack/docs/en/security/auditing/output-index.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[audit-index]]
=== Index audit output

In addition to logging to a file, you can store audit logs in Elasticsearch
rolling indices. These indices can be either on the same cluster, or on a
remote cluster. You configure the following settings in
`elasticsearch.yml` to control how audit entries are indexed. To enable
this output, you need to configure the setting `xpack.security.audit.outputs`
in the `elasticsearch.yml` file:

[source,yaml]
----------------------------
xpack.security.audit.outputs: [ index, logfile ]
----------------------------

For more configuration options, see
{ref}/auditing-settings.html#index-audit-settings[Audit log indexing configuration settings].

IMPORTANT: No filtering is performed when auditing, so sensitive data may be
audited in plain text when including the request body in audit events.

[float]
==== Audit index settings

You can also configure settings for the indices that the events are stored in.
These settings are configured in the `xpack.security.audit.index.settings` namespace
in `elasticsearch.yml`. For example, the following configuration sets the
number of shards and replicas to 1 for the audit indices:

[source,yaml]
----------------------------
xpack.security.audit.index.settings:
  index:
    number_of_shards: 1
    number_of_replicas: 1
----------------------------

NOTE: Audit events are batched for indexing so there is a lag before
events appear in the index. You can control how frequently batches of
events are pushed to the index by setting
`xpack.security.audit.index.flush_interval` in `elasticsearch.yml`.

Commit message:

[DOCS] Clarify audit index settings when remote indexing (#30923)

x-pack/docs/en/security/auditing/output-index.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[audit-index]]
=== Index audit output

In addition to logging to a file, you can store audit logs in Elasticsearch
rolling indices. These indices can be either on the same cluster, or on a
remote cluster. You configure the following settings in
`elasticsearch.yml` to control how audit entries are indexed. To enable
this output, you need to configure the setting `xpack.security.audit.outputs`
in the `elasticsearch.yml` file:

[source,yaml]
----------------------------
xpack.security.audit.outputs: [ index, logfile ]
----------------------------

For more configuration options, see
{ref}/auditing-settings.html#index-audit-settings[Audit log indexing configuration settings].

IMPORTANT: No filtering is performed when auditing, so sensitive data may be
audited in plain text when including the request body in audit events.

[float]
==== Audit index settings

You can also configure settings for the indices that the events are stored in.
These settings are configured in the `xpack.security.audit.index.settings` namespace
in `elasticsearch.yml`. For example, the following configuration sets the
number of shards and replicas to 1 for the audit indices:

[source,yaml]
----------------------------
xpack.security.audit.index.settings:
  index:
    number_of_shards: 1
    number_of_replicas: 1
----------------------------

These settings apply to the local audit indices, as well as to the
<<forwarding-audit-logfiles, remote audit indices>>, but only if the remote cluster
does *not* have {security} installed, or the {es} versions are different.
If the remote cluster has {security} installed, and the versions coincide, the
settings for the audit indices there will take precedence,
even if they are unspecified (i.e. left to defaults).

NOTE: Audit events are batched for indexing so there is a lag before
events appear in the index. You can control how frequently batches of
events are pushed to the index by setting
`xpack.security.audit.index.flush_interval` in `elasticsearch.yml`.
