docs/reference/indices/aliases.asciidoc, before:

[[indices-aliases]]
== Index Aliases

APIs in Elasticsearch accept an index name when working against a
specific index, and several indices when applicable. The index aliases
API allows aliasing an index with a name, with all APIs automatically
converting the alias name to the actual index name. An alias can also be
mapped to more than one index, and when specifying it, the alias will
automatically expand to the aliased indices. An alias can also be
associated with a filter that will automatically be applied when
searching, and routing values. An alias cannot have the same name as an index.

Here is a sample of associating the alias `alias1` with index `test1`:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /_aliases
{
    "actions" : [
        { "add" : { "index" : "test1", "alias" : "alias1" } }
    ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[s/^/PUT test1\nPUT test2\n/]

And here is removing that same alias:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /_aliases
{
    "actions" : [
        { "remove" : { "index" : "test1", "alias" : "alias1" } }
    ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]

Renaming an alias is a simple `remove` then `add` operation within the
same API. This operation is atomic, no need to worry about a short
period of time where the alias does not point to an index:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /_aliases
{
    "actions" : [
        { "remove" : { "index" : "test1", "alias" : "alias1" } },
        { "add" : { "index" : "test2", "alias" : "alias1" } }
    ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]

Associating an alias with more than one index is simply several `add`
actions:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /_aliases
{
    "actions" : [
        { "add" : { "index" : "test1", "alias" : "alias1" } },
        { "add" : { "index" : "test2", "alias" : "alias1" } }
    ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[s/^/PUT test1\nPUT test2\n/]

Multiple indices can be specified for an action with the `indices` array syntax:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /_aliases
{
    "actions" : [
        { "add" : { "indices" : ["test1", "test2"], "alias" : "alias1" } }
    ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[s/^/PUT test1\nPUT test2\n/]

To specify multiple aliases in one action, the corresponding `aliases` array
syntax exists as well.

For the example above, a glob pattern can also be used to associate an alias to
more than one index that share a common name:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /_aliases
{
    "actions" : [
        { "add" : { "index" : "test*", "alias" : "all_test_indices" } }
    ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[s/^/PUT test1\nPUT test2\n/]

In this case, the alias is a point-in-time alias that will group all
current indices that match, it will not automatically update as new
indices that match this pattern are added/removed.

It is an error to index to an alias which points to more than one index.

It is also possible to swap an index with an alias in one operation:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT test     <1>
PUT test_2   <2>
POST /_aliases
{
    "actions" : [
        { "add":  { "index": "test_2", "alias": "test" } },
        { "remove_index": { "index": "test" } }  <3>
    ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
<1> An index we've added by mistake
<2> The index we should have added
<3> `remove_index` is just like <<indices-delete-index>>

[float]
[[filtered]]
=== Filtered Aliases

Aliases with filters provide an easy way to create different "views" of
the same index. The filter can be defined using Query DSL and is applied
to all Search, Count, Delete By Query and More Like This operations with
this alias.

To create a filtered alias, first we need to ensure that the fields already
exist in the mapping:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT /test1
{
  "mappings": {
    "type1": {
      "properties": {
        "user" : {
          "type": "keyword"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

Now we can create an alias that uses a filter on field `user`:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /_aliases
{
    "actions" : [
        {
            "add" : {
                 "index" : "test1",
                 "alias" : "alias2",
                 "filter" : { "term" : { "user" : "kimchy" } }
            }
        }
    ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]

[float]
[[aliases-routing]]
==== Routing

It is possible to associate routing values with aliases. This feature
can be used together with filtering aliases in order to avoid
unnecessary shard operations.

The following command creates a new alias `alias1` that points to index
`test`. After `alias1` is created, all operations with this alias are
automatically modified to use value `1` for routing:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /_aliases
{
    "actions" : [
        {
            "add" : {
                 "index" : "test",
                 "alias" : "alias1",
                 "routing" : "1"
            }
        }
    ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[s/^/PUT test\n/]

It's also possible to specify different routing values for searching
and indexing operations:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /_aliases
{
    "actions" : [
        {
            "add" : {
                 "index" : "test",
                 "alias" : "alias2",
                 "search_routing" : "1,2",
                 "index_routing" : "2"
            }
        }
    ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[s/^/PUT test\n/]

As shown in the example above, search routing may contain several values
separated by comma. Index routing can contain only a single value.

If a search operation that uses routing alias also has a routing parameter, an
intersection of both search alias routing and routing specified in the
parameter is used. For example the following command will use "2" as a
routing value:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /alias2/_search?q=user:kimchy&routing=2,3
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]

[float]
[[aliases-write-index]]
==== Write Index

It is possible to associate the index pointed to by an alias as the write index.
When specified, all index and update requests against an alias that point to multiple
indices will attempt to resolve to the one index that is the write index.
Only one index per alias can be assigned to be the write index at a time. If no write index is specified
and there are multiple indices referenced by an alias, then writes will not be allowed.

It is possible to specify an index associated with an alias as a write index using both the aliases API
and index creation API.

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /_aliases
{
    "actions" : [
        {
            "add" : {
                 "index" : "test",
                 "alias" : "alias1",
                 "is_write_index" : true
            }
        }
    ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[s/^/PUT test\n/]

In this example, we associate the alias `alias1` to both `test` and `test2`, where
`test` will be the index chosen for writing to.

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT /alias1/_doc/1
{
    "foo": "bar"
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]

The new document that was indexed to `/alias1/_doc/1` will be indexed as if it were
`/test/_doc/1`.

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /test/_doc/1
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]

To swap which index is the write index for an alias, the Aliases API can be leveraged to
do an atomic swap. The swap is not dependent on the ordering of the actions.

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /_aliases
{
    "actions" : [
        {
            "add" : {
                 "index" : "test",
                 "alias" : "alias1",
                 "is_write_index" : true
            }
        }, {
            "add" : {
                 "index" : "test2",
                 "alias" : "alias1",
                 "is_write_index" : false
            }
        }
    ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[s/^/PUT test\nPUT test2\n/]

[IMPORTANT]
=====================================
Aliases that do not explicitly set `is_write_index: true` for an index, and
only reference one index, will have that referenced index behave as if it is the write index
until an additional index is referenced. At that point, there will be no write index and
writes will be rejected.
=====================================

[float]
[[alias-adding]]
=== Add a single alias

An alias can also be added with the endpoint

`PUT /{index}/_alias/{name}`


where

[horizontal]
`index`::   The index the alias refers to. Can be any of `* | _all | glob pattern | name1, name2, …`
`name`::   The name of the alias. This is a required option.
`routing`:: An optional routing that can be associated with an alias.
`filter`::  An optional filter that can be associated with an alias.

You can also use the plural `_aliases`.

[float]
==== Examples:

Adding time based alias::
+
--
[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT /logs_201305/_alias/2013
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[s/^/PUT logs_201305\n/]
--

Adding a user alias::
+
--
First create the index and add a mapping for the `user_id` field:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT /users
{
    "mappings" : {
        "user" : {
            "properties" : {
                "user_id" : {"type" : "integer"}
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

Then add the alias for a specific user:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT /users/_alias/user_12
{
    "routing" : "12",
    "filter" : {
        "term" : {
            "user_id" : 12
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]

--

[float]
[[alias-index-creation]]
=== Aliases during index creation

Aliases can also be specified during <<create-index-aliases,index creation>>:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT /logs_20162801
{
    "mappings" : {
        "type" : {
            "properties" : {
                "year" : {"type" : "integer"}
            }
        }
    },
    "aliases" : {
        "current_day" : {},
        "2016" : {
            "filter" : {
                "term" : {"year" : 2016 }
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

[float]
[[deleting]]
=== Delete aliases


The rest endpoint is: `/{index}/_alias/{name}`

where

[horizontal]
`index`::  `* | _all | glob pattern | name1, name2, …`
`name`::  `* | _all | glob pattern | name1, name2, …`

Alternatively you can use the plural `_aliases`. Example:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
DELETE /logs_20162801/_alias/current_day
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]

[float]
[[alias-retrieving]]
=== Retrieving existing aliases

The get index alias API allows to filter by
alias name and index name. This api redirects to the master and fetches
the requested index aliases, if available. This api only serialises the
found index aliases.

Possible options:
[horizontal]
`index`::
    The index name to get aliases for. Partial names are
    supported via wildcards, also multiple index names can be specified
    separated with a comma. Also the alias name for an index can be used.

`alias`::
    The name of alias to return in the response. Like the index
    option, this option supports wildcards and the option the specify
    multiple alias names separated by a comma.

`ignore_unavailable`::
    What to do if an specified index name doesn't
    exist. If set to `true` then those indices are ignored.

The rest endpoint is: `/{index}/_alias/{alias}`.

[float]
==== Examples:

All aliases for the index `logs_20162801`:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /logs_20162801/_alias/*
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]

Response:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
 "logs_20162801" : {
   "aliases" : {
     "2016" : {
       "filter" : {
         "term" : {
           "year" : 2016
         }
       }
     }
   }
 }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE

All aliases with the name 2016 in any index:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /_alias/2016
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]

Response:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "logs_20162801" : {
    "aliases" : {
      "2016" : {
        "filter" : {
          "term" : {
            "year" : 2016
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE

All aliases that start with 20 in any index:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /_alias/20*
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]

Response:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "logs_20162801" : {
    "aliases" : {
      "2016" : {
        "filter" : {
          "term" : {
            "year" : 2016
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE

There is also a HEAD variant of the get indices aliases api to check if
index aliases exist. The indices aliases exists api supports the same
option as the get indices aliases api. Examples:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
HEAD /_alias/2016
HEAD /_alias/20*
HEAD /logs_20162801/_alias/*
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]

Commit message:

update rollover to leverage write-alias semantics (#32216)
Rollover should not swap aliases when `is_write_index` is set to `true`.
Instead, both the new and old indices should have the rollover alias,
with the newly created index as the new write index

Updates Rollover to leverage the ability to preserve aliases and swap which is the write index.

Historically, Rollover would swap which index had the designated alias for writing documents against. This required users to keep a separate read-alias that enabled reading against both rolled over and newly created indices, whiles the write-alias was being re-assigned at every rollover.

With the ability for aliases to designate a write index, Rollover can be a bit more flexible with its use of aliases.

Updates include:

- Rollover validates that the target alias has a write index (the index that is being rolled over). This means that the restriction that aliases only point to one index is no longer necessary.
- Rollover explicitly (and atomically) swaps which index is the write-index by explicitly assigning the existing index to have `is_write_index: false` and have the newly created index have its rollover alias as `is_write_index: true`. This is only done when `is_write_index: true` on the write index. Default behavior of removing the alias from the rolled over index stays when `is_write_index` is not explicitly set

Relevant things that are staying the same:

- Rollover is rejected if there exist any templates that match the newly-created index and configure the rollover-alias
   - I think this existed to prevent the situation where an alias pointed to two indices for a short while. Although this can technically be relaxed, the specific cases that are safe are really particular and difficult to reason, so leaving the broad restriction sounds good

docs/reference/indices/aliases.asciidoc, after:

[[indices-aliases]]
== Index Aliases

APIs in Elasticsearch accept an index name when working against a
specific index, and several indices when applicable. The index aliases
API allows aliasing an index with a name, with all APIs automatically
converting the alias name to the actual index name. An alias can also be
mapped to more than one index, and when specifying it, the alias will
automatically expand to the aliased indices. An alias can also be
associated with a filter that will automatically be applied when
searching, and routing values. An alias cannot have the same name as an index.

Here is a sample of associating the alias `alias1` with index `test1`:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /_aliases
{
    "actions" : [
        { "add" : { "index" : "test1", "alias" : "alias1" } }
    ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[s/^/PUT test1\nPUT test2\n/]

And here is removing that same alias:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /_aliases
{
    "actions" : [
        { "remove" : { "index" : "test1", "alias" : "alias1" } }
    ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]

Renaming an alias is a simple `remove` then `add` operation within the
same API. This operation is atomic, no need to worry about a short
period of time where the alias does not point to an index:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /_aliases
{
    "actions" : [
        { "remove" : { "index" : "test1", "alias" : "alias1" } },
        { "add" : { "index" : "test2", "alias" : "alias1" } }
    ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]

Associating an alias with more than one index is simply several `add`
actions:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /_aliases
{
    "actions" : [
        { "add" : { "index" : "test1", "alias" : "alias1" } },
        { "add" : { "index" : "test2", "alias" : "alias1" } }
    ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[s/^/PUT test1\nPUT test2\n/]

Multiple indices can be specified for an action with the `indices` array syntax:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /_aliases
{
    "actions" : [
        { "add" : { "indices" : ["test1", "test2"], "alias" : "alias1" } }
    ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[s/^/PUT test1\nPUT test2\n/]

To specify multiple aliases in one action, the corresponding `aliases` array
syntax exists as well.

For the example above, a glob pattern can also be used to associate an alias to
more than one index that share a common name:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /_aliases
{
    "actions" : [
        { "add" : { "index" : "test*", "alias" : "all_test_indices" } }
    ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[s/^/PUT test1\nPUT test2\n/]

In this case, the alias is a point-in-time alias that will group all
current indices that match, it will not automatically update as new
indices that match this pattern are added/removed.

It is an error to index to an alias which points to more than one index.

It is also possible to swap an index with an alias in one operation:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT test     <1>
PUT test_2   <2>
POST /_aliases
{
    "actions" : [
        { "add":  { "index": "test_2", "alias": "test" } },
        { "remove_index": { "index": "test" } }  <3>
    ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
<1> An index we've added by mistake
<2> The index we should have added
<3> `remove_index` is just like <<indices-delete-index>>

[float]
[[filtered]]
=== Filtered Aliases

Aliases with filters provide an easy way to create different "views" of
the same index. The filter can be defined using Query DSL and is applied
to all Search, Count, Delete By Query and More Like This operations with
this alias.

To create a filtered alias, first we need to ensure that the fields already
exist in the mapping:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT /test1
{
  "mappings": {
    "type1": {
      "properties": {
        "user" : {
          "type": "keyword"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

Now we can create an alias that uses a filter on field `user`:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /_aliases
{
    "actions" : [
        {
            "add" : {
                 "index" : "test1",
                 "alias" : "alias2",
                 "filter" : { "term" : { "user" : "kimchy" } }
            }
        }
    ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]

[float]
[[aliases-routing]]
==== Routing

It is possible to associate routing values with aliases. This feature
can be used together with filtering aliases in order to avoid
unnecessary shard operations.

The following command creates a new alias `alias1` that points to index
`test`. After `alias1` is created, all operations with this alias are
automatically modified to use value `1` for routing:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /_aliases
{
    "actions" : [
        {
            "add" : {
                 "index" : "test",
                 "alias" : "alias1",
                 "routing" : "1"
            }
        }
    ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[s/^/PUT test\n/]

It's also possible to specify different routing values for searching
and indexing operations:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /_aliases
{
    "actions" : [
        {
            "add" : {
                 "index" : "test",
                 "alias" : "alias2",
                 "search_routing" : "1,2",
                 "index_routing" : "2"
            }
        }
    ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[s/^/PUT test\n/]

As shown in the example above, search routing may contain several values
separated by comma. Index routing can contain only a single value.

If a search operation that uses routing alias also has a routing parameter, an
intersection of both search alias routing and routing specified in the
parameter is used. For example the following command will use "2" as a
routing value:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /alias2/_search?q=user:kimchy&routing=2,3
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]

[float]
[[aliases-write-index]]
==== Write Index

It is possible to associate the index pointed to by an alias as the write index.
When specified, all index and update requests against an alias that point to multiple
indices will attempt to resolve to the one index that is the write index.
Only one index per alias can be assigned to be the write index at a time. If no write index is specified
and there are multiple indices referenced by an alias, then writes will not be allowed.

It is possible to specify an index associated with an alias as a write index using both the aliases API
and index creation API.

Setting an index to be the write index with an alias also affects how the alias is manipulated during
Rollover (see <<indices-rollover-index, Rollover With Write Index>>).

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /_aliases
{
    "actions" : [
        {
            "add" : {
                 "index" : "test",
                 "alias" : "alias1",
                 "is_write_index" : true
            }
        }
    ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[s/^/PUT test\n/]

In this example, we associate the alias `alias1` to both `test` and `test2`, where
`test` will be the index chosen for writing to.

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT /alias1/_doc/1
{
    "foo": "bar"
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]

The new document that was indexed to `/alias1/_doc/1` will be indexed as if it were
`/test/_doc/1`.

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /test/_doc/1
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]

To swap which index is the write index for an alias, the Aliases API can be leveraged to
do an atomic swap. The swap is not dependent on the ordering of the actions.

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /_aliases
{
    "actions" : [
        {
            "add" : {
                 "index" : "test",
                 "alias" : "alias1",
                 "is_write_index" : true
            }
        }, {
            "add" : {
                 "index" : "test2",
                 "alias" : "alias1",
                 "is_write_index" : false
            }
        }
    ]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[s/^/PUT test\nPUT test2\n/]

[IMPORTANT]
=====================================
Aliases that do not explicitly set `is_write_index: true` for an index, and
only reference one index, will have that referenced index behave as if it is the write index
until an additional index is referenced. At that point, there will be no write index and
writes will be rejected.
=====================================

[float]
[[alias-adding]]
=== Add a single alias

An alias can also be added with the endpoint

`PUT /{index}/_alias/{name}`


where

[horizontal]
`index`::   The index the alias refers to. Can be any of `* | _all | glob pattern | name1, name2, …`
`name`::   The name of the alias. This is a required option.
`routing`:: An optional routing that can be associated with an alias.
`filter`::  An optional filter that can be associated with an alias.

You can also use the plural `_aliases`.

[float]
==== Examples:

Adding time based alias::
+
--
[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT /logs_201305/_alias/2013
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[s/^/PUT logs_201305\n/]
--

Adding a user alias::
+
--
First create the index and add a mapping for the `user_id` field:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT /users
{
    "mappings" : {
        "user" : {
            "properties" : {
                "user_id" : {"type" : "integer"}
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

Then add the alias for a specific user:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT /users/_alias/user_12
{
    "routing" : "12",
    "filter" : {
        "term" : {
            "user_id" : 12
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]

--

[float]
[[alias-index-creation]]
=== Aliases during index creation

Aliases can also be specified during <<create-index-aliases,index creation>>:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT /logs_20162801
{
    "mappings" : {
        "type" : {
            "properties" : {
                "year" : {"type" : "integer"}
            }
        }
    },
    "aliases" : {
        "current_day" : {},
        "2016" : {
            "filter" : {
                "term" : {"year" : 2016 }
            }
        }
    }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

[float]
[[deleting]]
=== Delete aliases


The rest endpoint is: `/{index}/_alias/{name}`

where

[horizontal]
`index`::  `* | _all | glob pattern | name1, name2, …`
`name`::  `* | _all | glob pattern | name1, name2, …`

Alternatively you can use the plural `_aliases`. Example:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
DELETE /logs_20162801/_alias/current_day
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]

[float]
[[alias-retrieving]]
=== Retrieving existing aliases

The get index alias API allows to filter by
alias name and index name. This api redirects to the master and fetches
the requested index aliases, if available. This api only serialises the
found index aliases.

Possible options:
[horizontal]
`index`::
    The index name to get aliases for. Partial names are
    supported via wildcards, also multiple index names can be specified
    separated with a comma. Also the alias name for an index can be used.

`alias`::
    The name of alias to return in the response. Like the index
    option, this option supports wildcards and the option the specify
    multiple alias names separated by a comma.

`ignore_unavailable`::
    What to do if an specified index name doesn't
    exist. If set to `true` then those indices are ignored.

The rest endpoint is: `/{index}/_alias/{alias}`.

[float]
==== Examples:

All aliases for the index `logs_20162801`:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /logs_20162801/_alias/*
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]

Response:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
 "logs_20162801" : {
   "aliases" : {
     "2016" : {
       "filter" : {
         "term" : {
           "year" : 2016
         }
       }
     }
   }
 }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE

All aliases with the name 2016 in any index:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /_alias/2016
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]

Response:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "logs_20162801" : {
    "aliases" : {
      "2016" : {
        "filter" : {
          "term" : {
            "year" : 2016
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE

All aliases that start with 20 in any index:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
GET /_alias/20*
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]

Response:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "logs_20162801" : {
    "aliases" : {
      "2016" : {
        "filter" : {
          "term" : {
            "year" : 2016
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// TESTRESPONSE

There is also a HEAD variant of the get indices aliases api to check if
index aliases exist. The indices aliases exists api supports the same
option as the get indices aliases api. Examples:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
HEAD /_alias/2016
HEAD /_alias/20*
HEAD /logs_20162801/_alias/*
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[continued]
